Washington Times
Запрос: Sputnik V
Всего документов: 85


#1
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 22.09.2020
Заглавие: What a gift: Russia offers UN staff free virus vaccines


By Associated Press - Tuesday, September 22, 2020
MOSCOW (AP) - What do you do when Vladimir Putin offers you Russia’s new coronavirus vaccine, for free?
United Nations staff in New York and around the world are now facing that choice, after the Russian president offered Tuesday to provide them the Sputnik-V vaccine in a speech to this year’s General Assembly marking the body’s 75th birthday.
Only results from small early studies on the Russian vaccine have been published, raising concerns among some scientists that it isn’t ready yet for widespread use - and prompting worldwide memes about potential bizarre side effects.
“Any one of us could face this dangerous virus. The virus has not spared the staff of the United Nations, its headquarters and regional entities,” Putin said in a prerecorded speech from Moscow.
The coronavirus pandemic means this year’s General Assembly is a work-from-home production, for the first time in its history.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
“Russia is ready to offer U.N. workers the necessary, qualified help, and in particular we propose to supply our vaccine for free to employees of the organization and its subsidiaries who volunteer for vaccination,” said Putin, who announced the vaccine to broad fanfare last month and said his own daughter is among those who have taken it.
He described Tuesday’s offer as a response to popular demand: “Some colleagues from the U.N. have asked about this, and we will not remain indifferent to them.”
U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric said, “We thank President Putin for his generous offer which will be studied by our medical services.”
At the U.N.’s medical agency in Geneva, the World Health Organization, spokeswoman Dr. Margaret Harris declined to comment.
In a report published in the journal Lancet, developers of the Russian vaccine said it appeared to be safe and to prompt an antibody response in all 40 people tested in the second phase of the study within three weeks. However, the authors noted that participants were only followed for 42 days, the study sample was small and there was no placebo or control vaccine used.
By contrast, other vaccines that have also shown promise in early tests are now being studied more widely, in tens of thousands of people in several countries, to understand if they can protect people from infections - and whether they have side effects that can only be found through large trials.
On Monday, Russian media reported that the WHO’s regional director for Europe, Hans Kluge, praised the vaccine after a meeting with Russian Health Minister Mikhail Murashko in Moscow. The state Tass news agency quoted Kluge as saying that “the WHO appreciates Russia’s efforts in developing a vaccine against the coronavirus, Sputnik V” and calling it “safe and effective.”
Russian officials have defended the vaccine on the world stage, as pharmaceutical companies around the world race to market an effective vaccine on a mass scale, and governments race to ensure access to a vaccine for their populations.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2020/sep/22/what-a-gift-russia-offers-un-staff-free-virus-vacc/




#2
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 14.10.2020 
Заглавие: Russia approves 2nd virus vaccine after early trials


By DARIA LITVINOVA - Associated Press - Wednesday, October 14, 2020
MOSCOW (AP) - Russian authorities have given regulatory approval to a second coronavirus vaccine after early-stage studies, two months after a similar move prompted widespread criticism from scientists both at home and abroad.
Russian President Vladimir Putin made the announcement on Wednesday, during a televised meeting with government officials.
“We now need to increase production of the first vaccine and the second vaccine,” Putin said, adding that the priority was to supply the Russian market with the vaccines.
The peptide-based, two-shot vaccine, EpiVacCorona, was developed by the Vector Institute in Siberia and tested among 100 volunteers in early-stage, placebo-controlled human trials, which lasted more than two months and were completed two weeks ago. The volunteers were between 18 and 60 years old.
The scientists have yet to publish the results of the study. In comments to the media, scientists developing the vaccine said that it produced enough antibodies to protect the person who had it from the virus and that the immunity it creates could last for up to six months.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
An advanced study involving tens of thousands of volunteers that is necessary to establish safety and effectiveness of the vaccine was scheduled to start in November or December.
Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova, who said earlier this week she took part in the early trials as a volunteer, said Wednesday that 40,000 people will take part in the advance studies of EpiVacCorona. It remained unclear whether the vaccine would be offered for a wider use while the trials are still ongoing.
Russia’s first vaccine, Sputnik V, was developed by the Moscow-based Gamaleya Institute and approved by the government on Aug. 11, after early trials among 76 volunteers were completed. Just like on Wednesday, Putin personally broke the news on national television and said one of his daughters had already been vaccinated, experienced slight side effects and developed antibodies.
As Russia boasted about being the first in the world to approve a vaccine, experts said that in line with established scientific protocol, much broader studies among tens of thousands of people were needed to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine before it is given widely.
Russian health authorities announced advanced trials of Sputnik V among 40,000 volunteers two weeks after it received government approval. Officials also said that vaccination of risk groups, such as doctors and teachers, will be carried out in parallel to the studies.
Golikova said Wednesday that 13,000 volunteers have so far enrolled in the studies of the Sputnik V vaccine.
The international criticism didn’t stop Russia from promoting Sputnik V abroad. Kirill Dmitriev, head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund that bankrolled the effort, said last month that the fund already has agreements with Mexico, India and Brazil, which ordered a total of 200 million doses, and dozens of other countries are interested in getting the vaccine.
Speaking at this year’s U.N. General Assembly, Putin offered to provide the Sputnik-V vaccine to U.N. staff for free. He described the offer as a response to popular demand: “Some colleagues from the U.N. have asked about this, and we will not remain indifferent to them.”
Russia has the world’s fourth largest coronavirus caseload with over 1.3 million infections. It has also reported over 23,000 deaths.
The outbreak in the country appeared to slow down in the summer, but the number of new infections started to grow rapidly last month. Over the past 11 days, Russian health officials have been reporting over 10,000 new cases every day. They registered a record number of 14,231 new cases on Wednesday.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2020/oct/14/russia-approves-2nd-virus-vaccine-after-early-tria/


#3
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 24.11.2020
Заглавие:  Russian virus vaccine to cost less than $10 per dose abroad


By DARIA LITVINOVA - Associated Press - Tuesday, November 24, 2020
MOSCOW (AP) - Russia released new results Tuesday claiming its experimental COVID-19 vaccine was highly effective, and promised it would cost less on international markets than vaccines by some of its Western competitors.
According to the Russian Direct Investment Fund, which bankrolled the development of the jab, Sputnik V will cost less than $10 per dose - or less than $20 for the two doses needed to vaccinate one person - on international markets. The vaccination will be free for Russians, the Fund said.
The two-shot jab, the fund promised in a statement, will be “two or more times cheaper” than those by Pfizer or Moderna, which cost about $20 and $15-25 per dose respectively, based on agreements the companies have struck to supply their vaccines to the U.S. government.
Kirill Dmitriev, head of the fund, told reporters Tuesday that over 1 billion doses of the vaccine are expected to be produced next year outside of Russia.
Russia drew international criticism for giving Sputnik V regulatory approval in early August, even though it was yet to complete advanced testing among tens of thousands of people, required to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine before it is given widely.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
An advanced study among 40,000 volunteers was announced two weeks after it received government approval. The trial is still ongoing, but the vaccine is already being offered to people in risk groups - such as medical workers and teachers - despite multiple expert warnings against its wider use before it completes all the necessary testing. Several high-profile officials have said they have already taken it, too.
President Vladimir Putin, who announced Sputnik V’s approval with much fanfare in August, saying one of his daughters had been vaccinated, has touted the jab as effective and safe, but appeared in no rush to take it himself.
Asked whether the president has been vaccinated, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Tuesday that Putin “can’t use an uncertified vaccine.” Peskov pointed out that “widespread vaccination hasn’t started yet, and the head of state can’t take part in the vaccination as a volunteer.”
Two weeks ago, the Moscow-based Gamaleya Institute that developed the vaccine and the Russian Direct Investment Fund said analysis of the study’s early data showed that the vaccine “had an efficacy rate of 92%.” The conclusion was based on 20 infections that occurred among 16,000 volunteers.
In a new statement on Tuesday, developers of the vaccine put its effectiveness at 91.4%, after the second interim analysis of the trial data was carried out based on 39 infections among 18,794 study participants that received both doses of either the vaccine or the placebo.
The statement said that eight cases of the virus were registered among 14,095 recipients of the vaccine, and 31 among 4,699 volunteers who got the dummy shots in the trial of Sputnik V. It remained unclear from the statement how coronavirus was diagnosed among the participants of the trial and whether all of them, including those showing no symptoms, were tested for the virus.
Both times, the Russian data was based on a much lower number of infections than Western drugmakers looked at when assessing the effectiveness of their vaccines.
Moderna said last week its vaccine appears to be 94.5% effective after having registered 95 cases of the virus among study participants. Pfizer’s 95% efficacy rate was announced after 170 infections were accumulated. On Monday, another drugmaker, Britain’s AstraZeneca, said late-stage trials showed its COVID-19 vaccine is highly effective, in a statement that came after registering 131 infections.
Developers of the Russian shots said “no unexpected adverse events were identified as part of the research.” Some of those vaccinated experienced pain at the injection point and flu-like symptoms, such as fever, weakness, fatigue and headache.
Mass vaccination in Russia is expected to start in 2021, and more than 2 million doses of Sputnik V will produced in Russia this year, Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova said Tuesday.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2020/nov/24/russian-virus-vaccine-to-cost-less-than-10-per-dos/


#4
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 27.12.2020
Заглавие: Putin to receive Russia’s Sputnik V COVID-19 vaccine 




By Lauren Toms - The Washington Times - Sunday, December 27, 2020 
Russian President Vladimir Putin reportedly will be vaccinated with his country’s Sputnik V COVID-19 vaccine, a Kremlin spokesperson said Sunday.
Russia unveiled its version of a voluntary COVID-19 vaccination campaign earlier this month, and will allow people over the age of 60 to apply to receive the vaccine on Monday, according to Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin.
Last week, officials approved the vaccine for distribution among elderly populations.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told Rossiya 1 TV Sunday that Mr. Putin “said he will be vaccinated, he made this decision and was waiting until all formalities are completed.”
The 68-year-old Russian leader previously has said that the Sputnik V vaccine is safe to use and has urged others to be vaccinated once it becomes widely available.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2020/dec/27/putin-to-receive-russias-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccin/


#5
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 30.12.2020
Заглавие: Russia to distribute 1 million Sputnik V COVID-19 vaccines by end of year: Minister 


By Lauren Toms - The Washington Times - Wednesday, December 30, 2020 
Russia is projected to have distributed 1 million shots through its at-home vaccination program by the end of the year, Russia’s Industry Minister Denis Manturov said in an interview Wednesday.
Russia rolled out its Sputnik V vaccine earlier this month and has produced more than 2 million doses, Mr. Manturov said. The vaccine, which remains in Phase III trials, is administered in two doses, 21 days apart.
As part of a vaccination campaign, people over the age of 60 were allowed to start requesting to receive the immunization earlier this week.
Russian President Vladimir Putin is expected to receive the Sputnik V vaccine, a Kremlin spokesperson said this week but declined to specify timing.
The country has reported more than 3.1 million cases of COVID-19, the fourth-highest in the world, according to a Johns Hopkins University tally.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2020/dec/30/russia-distribute-1-million-sputnik-v-covid-19-vac/


#6
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 31.12.2020   
Заглавие: Putin wishes Russians brighter New Year, ‘return to normal’


By VLADIMIR ISACHENKOV - Associated Press - Thursday, December 31, 2020
MOSCOW (AP) - President Vladimir Putin wished Russians a brighter new year Thursday as he praised the nation for its courage and resilience amid the coronavirus outbreak.
In a televised address broadcast just before midnight in each of Russia’s 11 time zones, Putin said that a year ago “no one could imagine the challenges that we would face.”
Russia has recorded more than 3 million confirmed infections and over 100,000 deaths, according to government figures.
“It feels like that the past year carried a load of several years,” Putin said. “It was hard for each of us, with worries, serious material problems, anxieties and, for some, the loss of dear ones.”
He hailed Russians for meeting the virus challenge with dignity and courage and particularly praised medical workers.
Howard goes toe-to-toe with Notre Dame in 'historic' college basketball matchup
Russia has faced a massive resurgence of cases in the fall, with confirmed infections and deaths significantly exceeding those reported in the spring.
The spring lockdown badly bruised the economy and sparked broad discontent, denting Putin’s popularity, and authorities have avoided re-imposing it amid the new wave of infections. Officials argued that the health care system has sufficient resources to cope with the influx of patients, but medical workers reported overflowing hospitals and other signs of strain.
Russian authorities pinned their hopes on the domestically designed Sputnik V vaccine, giving it quick regulatory approval in August at a time when it had been tested on only a few dozen people.
Earlier this month, Putin ordered a “large-scale” vaccination even though Sputnik V is still undergoing advanced studies needed to ensure its safety and effectiveness.
Authorities said over 300,000 people have received the jab, and the immunization campaign has been gradually expanding to include broader categories of the population.
“I’m convinced that together we will overcome it all, return to normal life and with a renewed energy continue to solve tasks that Russia faces,” Putin said in his address.
He emphasized the need to preserve national unity but refrained from mentioning the July 1 nationwide vote that approved a set of constitutional amendments that included a provision that reset his term count to let him run again in 2024.
Nearly 78% of voters approved the changes allowing the 68-year-old Putin to seek two more six-year terms and remain in power until 2036.
Putin, who has been in power for more than two decades - longer than any other Kremlin leader since Soviet dictator Josef Stalin - said he would decide later whether to run again in 2024.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2020/dec/31/putin-wishes-russians-brighter-new-year-return-to-/


#7
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 11.01.2021
Заглавие: Russia, China dole out own vaccines in effort to expand influence on world


By Tom Howell Jr. - The Washington Times - Monday, January 11, 2021
Roughly 7 million Americans have received the Pfizer or Moderna coronavirus vaccine but rival superpowers in Moscow and Beijing are using their own shots to immunize their citizens and engage in a form of inoculation diplomacy.
China and Russia have faced questions about the rigor of their clinical trials, but their pushes reflect an attempt to expand their influence on the world stage while filling the vacuum left by Western countries who snapped up doses from top drugmakers.
“Russia and China are using vaccines as a political tool. They want to build and enhance their reputation in Africa and the Middle East, in poor countries that they hope, ultimately, to do deals with for natural resources,” said Arthur Caplan, director of the division of medical ethics at the New York University Grossman School of Medicine.
Beijing is pushing to immunize 50 million Chinese residents with its Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines ahead of the Lunar New Year, while Indonesia on Monday approved the Sinovac version for emergency use.
Russia, meanwhile, sent 300,000 doses of its Sputnik V vaccine to Argentina and Moscow’s direct-investment fund announced Monday that the Palestinian health ministry registered the vaccine and will accept shipments in the first quarter of this year.
“We are happy that on top of Europe, Africa, Asia and Latin America, Sputnik V will now also be present in the Middle East. This will allow us to further combine forces for a quicker joint victory over the coronavirus infection by guaranteeing access to an effective and safe vaccine for more countries and their people,” said Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund.
Russia and China are doling out vaccines as they face charges of rogue behavior, from cyber-hacking to human-rights violations and anti-democratic crackdowns.
“After hacking the world’s research labs and launching a flood of propaganda, they are now engaged in global inoculation diplomacy,” said Patrick Cronin, the Asia-Pacific security chair at the Hudson Institute in Washington. “Russia and China want to deflect blame from their oppressive and at times brutal ways. But more generally, they want to enhance their authority at home and abroad, especially if it comes at the expense of the country that has dominated international security since the end of World War II — the United States.”
In some ways, these nations are filling the void left by rich countries that are ahead of the game in launching vaccines. Data compiled by Statista show as of mid-December, rich nations representing 14% of the world’s population — including the U.S., U.K., Australia, Japan, Switzerland, Israel and the European Union — had struck deals securing over half, or 53%, of the initial supply of vaccines.
“Just because Moscow and Beijing want to sand the sharp edges off their autocratic reputations doesn’t mean they are not also providing a global public good,” Mr. Cronin said. “The world needs all the safe and effective vaccine it can get to make COVID-19 seem like just another seasonal flu. We need to monitor their outreach activities, especially when it involves either America’s partners or potential adversaries. But like a vaccine itself, the shelf-life of vaccine diplomacy is also likely to be limited.”
Aside from politics, scientists are worried that places like Russia and China haven’t been transparent as they shop around their vaccines. Brazil and Turkey are testing China’s Sinovac vaccine and say it is effective, but the Chinese haven’t produced much independent data.
“It’s a lot of what I would call testimonials. ‘Believe us, it works.’ Maybe it does,” Dr. Caplan said. “They’re moving their vaccines out to other countries without the safeguards and transparency we really should expect and demand.”
The U.S., Canada and western European nations are employing a high regulatory bar in vetting vaccines from global drugmakers like AstraZeneca and Pfizer. For instance, the Food and Drug Administration balked at talk of delaying the second dose of the two-dose vaccines to maximize early supply, saying it shouldn’t stray from what’s been proven to work.
However, Russia on Monday said it wants to know if a one-dose “Sputnik Light” vaccine is effective so it can distribute more doses to countries struggling with the virus, according to Reuters.
The investment fund said a two-dose regimen will remain the standard in Russia, a move that Dr. Caplan called “suspicious.”
“Because you’re basically experimenting on people,” he said, “taking advantage of their desperation.”
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/jan/11/russia-china-dole-out-own-vaccines-effort-expand-i/


#8
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 24.01.2021
Заглавие:  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, president of Mexico, COVID-19 positive


By Associated Press - Sunday, January 24, 2021
MEXICO CITY — Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said Sunday he has tested positive for COVID-19 and that the symptoms are mild.
Mexico‘s president, who has been criticized for his handling of his country’s pandemic, said on his official Twitter account that he is under medical treatment.
“I regret to inform you that I am infected with COVID-19,” he tweeted. “The symptoms are mild but I am already under medical treatment. As always, I am optimistic. We will all move forward.”
His announcement came shortly after news emerged that he would speak with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday about obtaining doses of the Sputnik V COVID-19 vaccine.
Mexico Foreign Affairs Secretary Marcelo Ebrard said via Twitter the two leaders would speak about the bilateral relationship and supplying doses of the vaccine.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
The vaccine has not been approved for use in Mexico, but the government is desperate to fill supply gaps for the Pfizer vaccine. Mexico has given more than 618,000 vaccine doses.
Mexico has registered nearly 150,000 COVID-19 deaths and more than 1.7 million infections. Hospitals in the capital have been near capacity for weeks as a surge of cases followed the holiday season.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/jan/24/andres-manuel-lopez-obrador-president-mexico-covid/


#9
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 24.01.2021
Заглавие: Turkey passes 25,000 COVID-19-related deaths


By Associated Press - Sunday, January 24, 2021
ANKARA, Turkey (AP) - Turkey on Sunday passed 25,000 COVID-19-related deaths since the start of the outbreak in March, the health ministry said.
A toll of 140 new fatalities saw the total figure rise to 25,073. Turkey has recorded more than 2.4 million infections since the first case was recorded on March 11.
The government reintroduced restrictions at the start of December, including weekday evening curfews and weekend lockdowns, to stem another surge of infections.
Restaurants and cafes have been restricted to takeout services, weddings and funerals are limited to 30 people and people over age 65 and under 20 are banned from using public transport.
“We all observe that the street restrictions are having a great impact on both the number of cases and the decrease in the number of patients,” Mustafa Necmi Ilhan, a member of the government’s scientific advisory committee, said Saturday.
Gallup: Support for Democrats plunged, GOP surged as Biden struggled with virus, Afghanistan
“It’s necessary not to rush lifting the restrictions but when the number of cases and patients drops, of course they can be lifted.”
The number of daily cases has fallen to around 6,000 in recent days from a high of more than 33,000 in December.
Turkey began its vaccination program on Jan. 14, initially focusing on health workers and the elderly. More than 1.2 million people had been given a first dose of the Chinese CoronaVac vaccine as of Saturday night, Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said.
About 6.5 million doses were due to arrive from China on Monday, he added. Turkey earlier received an initial consignment of 3 million doses.
Turkey signed an agreement with Russia on Saturday to produce the Sputnik V vaccine.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/jan/24/turkey-passes-25000-covid-19-related-deaths/


#10
Дата: 28.01.2021
Название статьи: Mexico tops 155,000 COVID-19 deaths, may be 3rd highest


By Associated Press - Thursday, January 28, 2021
MEXICO CITY (AP) - Mexico reached 155,145 confirmed deaths from COVID-19 Thursday, which would make it the country with the world’s third-highest total, passing India’s death toll of 153,847.
Mexico reported 1,506 newly confirmed deaths Thursday. However, Mexico has an extremely low rate of testing, and estimates of excess deaths suggest the real toll to date is over 195,000.
The country also recorded 18,670 newly confirmed infections, bringing the total to 1.82 million.
President Andrés Manuel López Obrador tested positive for COVID-19 over the weekend, and continues to receive treatment at his apartment in the National Palace.
Mexico has so far managed to get only about 760,000 doses of coronavirus vaccines, and is placing its hopes on Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine. However, Russia has not yet publicly presented the results of Phase 3 testing, which would yield data on how effective it is.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
Nevertheless, Assistant Health Secretary Hugo López-Gatell said earlier this week that Mexico is close to approving the Sputnik vaccine, based on confidential documents he was allowed to see by Argentina, where the shot is already being administered.
That has caused a storm of criticism in Mexico, with some saying the vaccine shouldn’t be approved or used until that data is released.
López-Gatell responded by claiming the critics were anti-vaccine, and accused them of doing “a lot of damage.”
“They have started to discredit vaccines in a completely irrational manner, with no evidence,” López-Gatell said.
But critics say López-Gatell is the one with a lack of evidence.
“They have made up the idea that I am anti-vaccine, because I caught them,” wrote Sen. Lilly Téllez of the conservative opposition National Action Party. “I do want vaccines, but ones that have been approved by the World Health Organization and the international scientific community.”
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/jan/28/mexico-tops-155000-covid-19-deaths-may-be-3rd-high/


#11
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 29.01.2021
Заглавие: A look at COVID-19 vaccines already in use, or getting close


By The Associated Press - Associated Press - Friday, January 29, 2021
While a few have already hit the market, there are still dozens of coronavirus vaccines in development around the globe.
Some use tried-and-true technologies, other use novel approaches. The shots were all tested differently, and some were allowed to go into use even before they were rigorously tested. How well they work varies, with preliminary study results ranging from 50% effective to over 90%.
So far, regulators in different countries have allowed use of about a half dozen, mostly under emergency use provisions. A few more are getting close. The ones available now all require two doses, given weeks apart.
Among those furthest along
Pfizer: Developed with BioNTech; authorized by the U.S., U.K, European Union, the World Health Organization and elsewhere.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
Moderna: Developed with the U.S. National Institutes of Health; authorized by the U.S., U.K., European Union, the World Health Organization and elsewhere.
AstraZeneca: Developed with Oxford University; authorized by more than 40 countries, including Britain, India, Argentina, Mexico and the European Union.
Sputnik V: Developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Research Institute; authorized in Russia and about 10 other countries.
Sinopharm: Authorized in China and several countries including Hungary, Serbia, and Morocco.
Sinovac: Authorized in China as well as Turkey, Brazil and Indonesia.
Bharat Biotech: Authorized in India.
Johnson & Johnson: In development; one dose; expected to seek U.S. Food and Drug Administration authorization soon.
Novavax: In development.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/jan/29/a-look-at-covid-19-vaccines-already-in-use-or-gett/


#12
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 30.01.2021
Заглавие: Algeria starts COVID-19 vaccination drive with Russian shots


By Associated Press - Saturday, January 30, 2021
ALGIERS, Algeria (AP) - Algeria launched its coronavirus vaccination campaign Saturday in the city where the country’s first COVID-19 case was confirmed in March.
The North African nation is using Russia’s Sputnik-V vaccine, and a 65-year-old retiree received the first shot at a hospital in Blida, a city about 40 kilometers (25 miles) southwest of the capital, Algiers. Health authorities were on hand for the event.
“All measures have been taken to ensure a good rollout of the vaccination campaign on the national territory,” Health Minister Abderrahmane Benbouzid said.
Vaccines will get administered in all regions of the country starting Sunday with health care workers, elderly adults and other vulnerable populations.
Health worker Yacine Ali Messaoud, who received a shot of Sputnik-V on Saturday, told The Associated Press he “came to set an example for the young people of my region and Algerians in general, so they don’t feel fear and can be vaccinated.”
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
Algerians were frustrated this month by repeated delays in vaccinations after promises of an imminent rollout. Concerns are also growing about Algerian President Abdelmadjid Tebboune, who has been convalescing for more than a month at an undisclosed location in Germany after suffering COVID-19 side effects.
Dr. Omran Fatma Zahra, head of community medicine for the Ouled Yaich health district, said, the public reception to the rollout seemed positive.
“There are a lot of people. We have just vaccinated about 20 people with chronic diseases who are under observation. So, it’s going very well,” the doctor.
Algeria received its first shipment of the Russian vaccine Friday at the Boufarik military airport, west of Algiers. Authorities did not indicate how many doses arrived, but the government had said it ordered a first batch of 500,000.
The government said it is negotiating to acquire the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.
Algeria has reported more than 106,000 confirmed and at least 2,884 deaths in the pandemic.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/jan/30/algeria-launches-its-covid-19-vaccination-campaign/


#13
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 02.02.2021
Заглавие:  Study: Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine appears safe, effective


By Maria Cheng and Daria Litvinova - Associated Press - Tuesday, February 2, 2021
MOSCOW (AP) — Russian scientists say the country’s Sputnik V vaccine appears safe and effective against COVID-19, according to early results of an advanced study published in a British medical journal.
The news is a boost for the shot that is increasingly being purchased by nations around the world who are desperate to stop the devastation caused by the pandemic.
Researchers say based on their trial, which involved about 20,000 people in Russia last fall, the vaccine is about 91% effective and that the shot also appeared to prevent people from becoming severely ill with COVID-19. The study was published online Tuesday in the journal, Lancet.
Scientists not linked to the research acknowledged that the speed at which the Russia vaccine was made and rolled out was criticized for “unseemly haste, corner cutting and an absence of transparency.”
“But the outcome reported here is clear,” British scientists Ian Jones and Polly Roy wrote in an accompanying commentary. “Another vaccine can now join the fight to reduce the incidence of COVID-19.”
Howard goes toe-to-toe with Notre Dame in 'historic' college basketball matchup
The Sputnik V vaccine was approved by the Russian government with much fanfare on Aug. 11. President Vladimir Putin personally broke the news on national television and said that one of his daughters had already been vaccinated with it. At the time, the vaccine had only been tested in several dozens of people.
Some early results were published in September, but participants had only been followed for about 42 days and there was no comparison group.
The latest study is based on research involving about 20,000 people over age 18 at 25 hospitals in Moscow between September and November, of whom three-quarters got two doses of the Russian vaccine 21 days apart and the remainder got placebo shots.
The most commonly reported side effects were flu-like symptoms, pain at the injection site and fatigue. Serious side effects were rare in both groups and four deaths were reported in the study, although none were considered to be the result of the vaccine.
The study included more than 2,100 people over age 60 and the vaccine appeared to be about 92% effective in them. The research is ongoing but in December, Russia’s Health Ministry said it would cut the size of the study from the expected 40,000 to about 31,000 volunteers that have already enrolled. Developers of the vaccine cited ethical concerns about using placebo shots.
The Russian vaccine uses a modified version of the common cold-causing adenovirus to carry genes for the spike protein in the coronavirus as a way to prime the body to react if COVID-19 comes along. That’s a similar technology to the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. But unlike that two-dose vaccine, the Russians used a slightly different adenovirus for the second booster shot.
Some experts say that approach may explain why the Russian vaccine seems to have produced a better immune response than the AstraZeneca vaccine, which has a reported efficacy rate of about 60 to 70%.
“This aims to drive higher immune responses to the target ‘spike’ by using two slightly different jabs,” said Alexander Edwards, an associate professor in biomedical technology at Britain’s University of Reading.
He said if you have two identical shots, it’s possible the immune system doesn’t get as big a boost from the second injection.
He added that, because the Russian vaccine is made using a tested technology, it should be possible to scale up manufacturing.
Sputnik V began being rolled out in a large-scale vaccination campaign in Russia in December, with doctors and teachers the first in line to get the shot. Last month, Putin ordered the effort to be expanded and for mass immunizations to start.
In early January, the Russian Direct Investment Fund that bankrolled the jab said that over 1 million Russians have already been vaccinated with the domestically developed shot. Some Russian media questioned the number and suggested that the rollout has been much slower, with many Russian regions reporting small numbers of vaccinations.
Outside Russia, Sputnik V has received authorization in over a dozen countries, according to the fund - including former Soviet republics of Belarus, Armenia and Turkmenistan; Latin American nations including Argentina, Bolivia and Venezuela; some African nations as well as Serbia, Iran, Palestine and UAE.
In the European Union, the shot has received initial authorization in Hungary and is still subject to final approval by the country’s National Public Health Center.
Batches of the vaccine have already been supplied to six countries. In all, more than 50 countries submitted applications for 2.4 billion doses, a RDIF spokesman told The Associated Press.
Algeria will begin producing the Sputnik V vaccine “within the coming weeks,” according to Kamel Mansouri, the head of Algeria’s national agency for pharmaceuticals.
The first batch of 50,000 doses of Sputnik V was flown to Algeria from Russia on Thursday, a tenth of what had been previously announced by the North African government. A cargo of 50,000 AstraZeneca doses arrived on Monday.
Mansouri said Algeria and Russia were in advanced discussions over Sputnik V and the vaccine would be manufactured at the government-owned SAIDAL facility.
“It is time that Algeria, a country that imports vaccine, be able to produce it on site to respond to the needs of the vaccination campaign, and to export in a second phase,” he said Tuesday on national television.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/2/study-russias-sputnik-v-vaccine-appears-safe-effec/


#14
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 02.02.2021 
Заглавие: Russia’s coronavirus vaccine approved for use in Mexico


By DIEGO DELGADO - Associated Press - Tuesday, February 2, 2021
MEXICO CITY (AP) - Mexico approved the Russian coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V for use Tuesday, just hours after the publication of early results of an advanced study saying it is about 91% effective.
Assistant Health Secretary Hugo López-Gatell, the government’s pandemic spokesman, said the health ministry signed a contract Monday for 400,000 doses of Sputnik V that will arrive this month. That is still a tiny amount for Mexico’s 126 million people.
It couldn’t come a moment too soon. Mexico has been hit so hard that hospitals in the capital were 87% full, and ambulance drivers waited hours to find an open bed for patients. Mexico has reported about 159,500 test-confirmed deaths related to COVID-19, but excess-death estimates place the real toll at well over 195,000.
“Unfortunately, because of the saturation of the hospitals and the phone lines, we are waiting about three or four hours before they can assign us a hospital, and to get there,” said ambulance crew chief Eduardo Vigueras.
Vigueras noted patients are sometimes sent to the only available beds at hospitals, far away from the overwhelmed east side borough of Iztapalapa. He said some relatives get angry and aggressive with paramedics because of the delays in treatment.
Gallup: Support for Democrats plunged, GOP surged as Biden struggled with virus, Afghanistan
Because some patients are in such bad shape, some families make an even harder choice. Paramedics say they often go to pick up a seriously ill coronavirus patient only to find their loved ones want to cancel the emergency call, because they know treatment is in such short supply and they may never see their relative again.
“A lot of people prefer to keep their relative at home, knowing that they are going to die, but with their loved ones there for the last few minutes, hours, days,” paramedic Paulina Cervantes said.
That desperation was on display Tuesday, when the Mexican government launched a new website for people over age 60 to register for appointments to get vaccines that the country doesn’t yet have.
So many people logged on that the Health Department apparently didn’t have the bandwidth to handle requests. The department’s website was quickly overwhelmed and the registration page didn’t load, returning a message: “Due to the overload of registrations, service has been interrupted. We are correcting and strengthening our infrastructure to avoid such interruptions.”
The Russian vaccine would become the third to receive emergency approval in Mexico. The regulating agency approved the Pfizer vaccine in December and AstraZeneca’s in January. Mexico turned to the Russian vaccine following delays in obtaining others it was counting on.
A dozen countries have already approved the Russian vaccine for use, including Bolivia and Argentina, where López-Gatell visited in January to learn more about it. He acknowledged that there had a been a “legitimate concern” among Mexicans, but that the early results published Tuesday in the medical journal The Lancet should alleviate them.
“The Russian Sputnik V vaccine is safe, it has 92% efficacy against COVID, it can be used safely and is effective in seniors,” López-Gatell said. “It allows us now to accelerate the step of vaccination against COVID in Mexico.”
Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador spoke with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin a week ago.
Mexico has so far given about 675,000 doses of vaccine, all of them from Pfizer. On Tuesday, a second batch of the active substance in the AstraZeneca vaccine arrived in Mexico, where it will be packed and distributed through the rest of Latin America.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/2/official-mexico-nears-approval-of-russias-covid-19/


#15
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 02.02.2021
Заглавие: The Latest: S Korea curbing travel, gatherings for holiday


By The Associated Press by - Associated Press - Tuesday, February 2, 2021
SEOUL, South Korea - South Korean officials are moving to limit travel and gatherings during next week’s Lunar New Year’s holidays by allowing train operators to sell only window seats and passenger vessels to operate at half capacity.
The Health Ministry announced the steps Wednesday while repeating a plea for people to stay home amid a steady rise in coronavirus infections.
Officials also plan to strengthen sanitization and install more thermal cameras at train stations, bus terminals and airports. Travelers will be required to be masked at all times and will be prohibited from eating food at highway rest areas.
Officials have also extended a clampdown on private social gatherings of five or more people, which they enforce by fining restaurants and other businesses if they accept large groups.
Nationals heavily invest internationally in a future with or without Juan Soto
THE VIRUS OUTBREAK:
UK tests house-to-house in hunt for new coronavirus variant. WHO experts visit animal disease center in Wuhan. Study: Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine appears safe, effective, Spain cancels San Fermin bull-running festival. Japan extends a state of emergency amid uncertainty over vaccine supplies and the hosting of the Tokyo Olympics this summer.
HERE’S WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING:
CANBERRA, Australia - Australian regulators have decided to place no upper age limit on use of the Pfizer coronavirus vaccine despite reports of dozens of deaths among the elderly in Norway.
Australia’s Therapeutic Goods Administration said in a statement Tuesday that it received reports on Jan. 14 of about 30 deaths in more than 40,000 elderly people vaccinated with Pfizer. But it added that “no causal link between vaccination and deaths could be established.”
The agency says that “elderly patients can receive this vaccine and there is no cap on the upper age limit.”
The regulaor last month gave provisional approval for the use of the Pfizer vaccine in Australia and the first doses are due to be administered to people aged 16 and older in late February.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. - New Zealand’s medical regulator has approved its first coronavirus vaccine, and officials hope to begin giving shots to border workers by the end of March.
New Zealand has no community transmission of the virus, and border workers are considered the most vulnerable to catching and spreading the disease because they deal with arriving travelers, some of whom are infected.
Regulators on Wednesday gave provisional approval for the vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech for people aged 16 and over.
However, New Zealand’s success in stamping out the virus also means it will need to wait longer than many other countries to get vaccine doses for the general population. Officials say they hope to begin general inoculations by midyear.
RICHMOND, Va. - Virginia’s state Senate has passed a bill that would require every local school division to make both virtual and in-person learning available to students.
The chamber passed the bill Tuesday on a 26-13 bipartisan vote.
The measure’s chances in the state House are less certain. At least one similar but more narrow bill aimed at students without adequate internet access failed during last year’s special legislative session.
Virginia currently has a patchwork approach to schooling, with some public and private schools offering in-person learning while others offer only virtual school. Supporters of the bill say that is arming children whose parents don’t have the resources to pay for costly tuition.
A spokeswoman for Gov. Ralph Northam says he will review the measure if it reaches his desk.
JACKSON, Miss. — Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves says he’s skeptical about a new federal effort to reduce racial disparities in coronavirus vaccination rates.
Reeves said Tuesday that around 10% of Mississippi’s total weekly vaccine allocation will go to pharmacy chains like Walmart, CVS or Walgreen under the plan.
In the governor’s words, “While it’s probably true in Washington, D.C., or in New York City that you can walk a block in either direction and run into a Walgreens, or run into a CVS or a Walmart. … in Mississippi, there aren’t a lot of Walmarts in Issaquena County, and there aren’t a lot of Walmarts in very rural areas.”
As of Tuesday, 17% of vaccine doses in Mississippi had gone to Black residents, while 69% went to white residents.
KENSINGTON, Md. - A new study finds that cleaner air from the pandemic lockdown warmed the planet a bit in 2020, especially in places such as the eastern United States, Russia and China.
Tuesday’s study found the pandemic lockdown reduced soot and sulfate air pollution, but those particles also reflect the sun’s heat and help cool areas briefly.
The end result is that some places warmed temporarily as much as two-thirds of a degree last year and the planet as a whole warmed by about .05 degrees. The study’s lead author said that loss of cooling outweighed any reduction in 2020 of heat-trapping carbon pollution.
TOPEKA, Kan. - Republican lawmakers in Kansas are moving toward formally condemning Democratic Gov. Laura Kelly’s decision to give prison inmates COVID-19 vaccinations ahead of others.
The state Senate’s health committee agreed Tuesday to sponsor a resolution from its GOP chair, Sen. Richard Hilderbrand, that calls on Kelly to reverse her policy on inoculating inmates.
The full Senate could debate it later this week.
LANSING, Mich. - An athletic advocacy group, hockey league and parents of athletes have sued Michigan’s health director, seeking a reversal of 2 1/2-month state ban on contact sports that was issued to curb the coronavirus.
Let Them Play Michigan, a group of student-athletes, parents, coaches and school administrators, is among plaintiffs that sued in the Court of Claims Tuesday.
The complaint contends that the order, which was recently extended through Feb. 21, arbitrarily and irrationally singles out and deprives athletes of their constitutional rights and freedoms.
Gov. Gretchen Whitmer has said she’s optimistic that the state can move toward reengagement in sports. Spokeswoman Lynn Sutfin said the department and governor acted decisively in November as a surge in cases threatened to overwhelm hospitals.
MEXICO CITY - Mexico is on the verge of approving the Russian COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V following the publication of early results of an advanced study.
Assistant Health Secretary Hugo López-Gatell, the government’s pandemic spokesman, says the health ministry signed a contract Monday for 400,000 doses of Sputnik V that will arrive this month.
Once approved, the Russian vaccine would become the third to receive emergency approval in Mexico. The regulating agency approved the Pfizer vaccine in December and AstraZeneca’s in January. Mexico turned to the Russian vaccine following delays in obtaining others it was counting on.
Mexico has so far given about 675,000 doses, all Pfizer, to a population of 126 million. On Tuesday, a second batch of the active substance in the AstraZeneca vaccine arrived in Mexico, where it will be packed and distributed through the rest of Latin America.
The Mexican government also launched a new website Tuesday for people over age 60 to register for vaccination appointments. However, the Mexican Health Department’s website was quickly overwhelmed and not working.
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico - The mayor of Puerto Rico’s capital says he tested positive for the coronavirus after undergoing an antigen test.
Miguel Romero says on Twitter that he is in isolation and awaiting the results of a molecular test for confirmation. He added the rest of his family has tested negative. He had planned to travel with his daughter to her university.
Gov. Pedro Pierluisi also is in isolation after having been in recent contact with Romero.
Romero is one of the highest-ranking government officials in Puerto Rico to test positive. The U.S. territory of 3.2 million people has reported more than 157,000 cases and more than 1,800 deaths.
BRUSSELS - The Belgian government says it won’t administer the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine to people over 55, saying there’s still a lack of data about its effectiveness among the elderly.
Health authorities in France, Germany and other countries have raised concerns that the Anglo-Swedish company didn’t test the vaccine in enough older people to prove it works for them and indicated they wouldn’t recommend it for the elderly.
“We don’t have enough info to be sure to say that it is good for the elderly,” says Belgian Health Minister Frank Vandenbroucke.
BEIRUT - Lebanon has broken its single-day record of coronavirus deaths with 81 as the country continued its nationwide lockdown for the third week.
The health ministry has registered a total of 306,000 cases since the start of the pandemic.
Lebanese authorities are expected to hold a meeting later this week to decide whether to begin easing the lockdown.
LAS VEGAS - Nevada has recorded its deadliest month of the coronavirus pandemic in January after reporting eight additional coronavirus deaths over the weekend.
The Las Vegas Review-Journal reported the additional deaths on Sunday boosted the statewide death toll for the month to 1,132. That’s more than a quarter of the 4,278 confirmed deaths since the start of the pandemic.
The state surpassed the previously monthly record of 982 deaths set in December. Health officials also reported 838 new cases.
WASHINGTON - The Biden administration will begin providing COVID-19 vaccines to U.S. pharmacies, part of its plan to ramp up vaccinations as new and potentially more serious virus strains are starting to appear. White House coronavirus coordinator Jeff Zients says the government will initially ship about 1 million doses to some 6,500 pharmacies around the country, starting next week.
That’s expected to accelerate as drugmakers increase production. Drug stores have become a mainstay for flu shots and shingles vaccines. The pharmacy vaccine program will be administered by the CDC and include outlets such as CVS, Walgreens, Walmart, Rite Aid and Costco, and supermarket pharmacies.
The government has distributed nearly 50 million doses, of which about 32 million have been administered, or more than 60%. That’s a marked improvement from just a few weeks ago. The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines require two shots, taken 21 to 28 days after the first shot.
PARIS - France’s top health advisory body is recommending the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine only be used on people under 65, citing lack of sufficient data about its effectiveness in older people.
The European Medicines Agency authorized AstraZeneca’s vaccine for use in adults throughout the European Union on Friday, amid criticism the bloc is not moving fast enough to vaccinate its population.
But health authorities in Germany, France and some other countries have raised concerns that not enough data exist to prove it works in older people.
France’s High Authority for Health issued its guidance Tuesday. It says it will review this guidance when AstraZeneca has more data on the vaccine’s effectiveness in older people.
NEW YORK - Some vaccination sites in the northeast U.S. remained closed Tuesday, but others were up and running again as the region dug out from a major snowstorm.
In Massachusetts, mass vaccination sites at Fenway Park and Gillette Stadium opened and closed early on Monday, but both facilities planned to operate as usual Tuesday. In New York City, vaccination sites run by the city’s public hospital network were running, while others had another day of cancelled appointments. There were scattered closures in Pennsylvania.
Snowfall in the northeast ranged from just a few inches in Boston to 16 inches in New York and more than 30 inches in parts of New Jersey.
COLUMBUS, Ohio - Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine and his wife received the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine on Tuesday in a procedure streamed live.
The couple was eligible because both are older than 70, the age group that can receive vaccines in Ohio this week. DeWine, a Republican, had said previously he wouldn’t cut in line for the shot but would wait his turn.
The Pfizer dose was administered by Dr. Kevin Sharrett in his southwestern Ohio office. Sharrett said he’s frequently asked about the vaccine’s safety. He says the vaccine is not only safe, it’s a better choice than coming down with the coronavirus.
More than 850,000 people in Ohio have received at least the first dose of the vaccine as of Monday, or about 7% of the population, according to the Ohio Department of Health.


#16
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 02.02.2021
Заглавие: France says no AstraZeneca virus vaccine for people over 65


By Associated Press - Tuesday, February 2, 2021
PARIS (AP) - France will only administer the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine to people under age 65, President Emmanuel Macron said Tuesday after the government’s health advisory body cited a lack of sufficient data about its effectiveness in older people.
The decision could shake up the French vaccination strategy, because the country has prioritized nursing home residents and people over 75. France had counted on the AstraZeneca vaccine for a large part of its upcoming inoculations, until the company announced delays affecting countries around Europe and the world.
“For this AstraZeneca vaccine, we will not propose it to those older than 65,” Macron told TF1 television Tuesday night. Instead, the vaccine the British-Swedish company developed with Oxford University will be given to medical personnel under 65, individuals with health vulnerabilities or those facing high exposure, he said.
The French practice differs from the guidance given by the European Medicines Agency, which authorized AstraZeneca’s vaccine for use in all adults throughout the European Union on Friday, amid criticism the bloc is not moving fast enough to vaccinate its population.
Health authorities in Germany and other countries have raised concerns that the Anglo-Swedish company didn’t test the vaccine in enough older people to prove it works for them, and indicated they would not recommend it for people over 65.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
In guidance issued Tuesday, France’s High Authority for Health said it “recommends that the vaccine … be given preferentially to people under 65.” It says it will review this guidance when AstraZeneca has more data on the vaccine’s effectiveness in older people.
The French government depends on the High Authority’s guidance and is adapting its strategy based on the announcement. Health officials have said they constantly adapt vaccine strategy based on availability of doses, demand and regulatory guidance.
Macron said France still aims to offer the vaccine to anyone who wants it by the end of the summer.
Macron met Tuesday night with international vaccine producers and major pharmaceutical companies that have an industrial site in France to discuss ways to “quickly” and “significantly” boost short-term production capabilities in France and in Europe. The meeting came amid criticism of the EU’s handling of its collective vaccine strategy across the bloc’s 27 member nations.
Macron said he sent a scientific team to Russia several weeks ago to study that country’s vaccine efforts and “the exchanges were very positive.” The French leader noted early results of an advanced study of Russia’s Sputnik V published in The Lancet medical journal that showed the vaccine was about 91% effective.
Macron said that if and when the European Medicines Agency decides to approve the Russian vaccine, it will not be a “political decision. It’s a decision that is scientific.”
France has seen some of the world’s highest numbers of confirmed virus cases and deaths, which have been steadily rising in recent weeks.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/2/france-advises-astrazeneca-vaccine-only-for-those-/


#17
Источник: Washington Times
Дата:  03.02.2021
Заглавие: Leader says Serbia is proud to give citizens Chinese vaccine


By DUSAN STOJANOVIC - Associated Press - Wednesday, February 3, 2021
BELGRADE, Serbia (AP) - Serbia’s leader expressed his gratitude to Chinese President Xi Jinping on Wednesday for 1 million doses of a COVID-19 vaccine, saying he is proud Serbia became the first European country to give its population the shots made in China.
Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic said after meeting with the Chinese ambassador in Belgrade that by receiving the Sinopharm vaccine, “the citizens of our country expressed deep trust in the Chinese vaccine and with that also in the Chinese state and Chinese experts.”
This was not the first time the populist president publicly praised China and its Communist Party leader. Vucic kissed the Chinese flag when China delivered masks and other protective equipment in March 2020, and he criticized the European Union for an alleged lack of solidarity at the start of the coronavirus pandemic.
Vucic was less critical of the EU this time, although he has said that he “felt sick” when he learned that some unnamed member nations secured vaccine doses multiple times above the number needed to inoculate their populations while holding back on deliveries to poorer countries.
Although Serbia is formally seeking EU membership, it has at the same time turned to both China and Russia which has also promised to supply large quantities of the Russian-developed Sputnik V vaccine.
Vucic‘s office said in a statement on Wednesday that he spoke with Russian President Vladimir Putin, urging him to deliver additional doses of the Russian vaccine “so Serbian citizens can get reliable protection from the coronavirus as soon as possible.”
Vucic also said that Serbia will build a facility with the help of Russian experts to produce the Sputnik V vaccines.
There have been widespread concerns in the EU about the safety and effectiveness of the Chinese and Russian vaccines, as they have not followed all required trials before getting approval in their countries.
However, Hungary broke ranks with the EU by granting provisional licenses to both Sinopharm and Sputnik V. Russian scientists say Sputnik V appears safe and effective against COVID-19, according to early results of an advanced study published Tuesday in a British medical journal.
Vaccine delivery is turning into a foreign policy matter in the Balkans, which were promised EU help in securing does through the U.N.-backed COVAX Facility, but no shots have been delivered through the program so far.
Serbia managed to purchase the Chinese vaccine and smaller quantities of Sputnik V and the Pfizer-BioN-Tech vaccines through direct deals, helping the country launch one of the quickest vaccination campaigns in Europe.
Vucic urged China Wednesday to deliver the rest of the Serbia’s ordered vaccines as soon as possible. He did not specify the quantity.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/3/leader-says-serbia-is-proud-to-give-citizens-chine/


#18
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 03.02.2021
Заглавие: The Latest: Mexico sees near-record daily coronavirus deaths


By The Associated Press - Associated Press - Wednesday, February 3, 2021
MEXICO CITY - Mexico reported a near-record 1,707 confirmed coronavirus deaths Wednesday, as the country runs out of vaccines.
The Health Department reported Mexico’s COVID-19 deaths now total 161,240, and confirmed infections rose by 12,153 to nearly 1.89 million. Estimates based on excess-death statistics suggest the real death toll is over 195,000.
Mexico approved Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine Tuesday, but has not yet signed a purchase contract and does not have a firm date for its first delivery. The government had hoped to get 400,000 doses by the end of February.
Mexico has received about 766,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine and has administered about 686,000 shots, with much of the remainder set aside for second doses. The next Pfizer shipment is not expected until mid-February.
Meanwhile, the government website set up to register people for vaccines when they do arrive was overwhelmed and inoperable for a second straight day.
MANAGUA, Nicaragua - Nicaragua’s government says it has approved Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine for emergency use.
The government outlet El 19 Digital says, “Nicaragua is advancing in its negotiations with Russia to supply” the vaccine. It was the first vaccine approved in Nicaragua, which still awaits its first doses.
The government had said in January it had initiated efforts to acquire vaccines from various laboratories around the world and hoped to vaccinate 3.7 million people in an initial stage.
The government of President Daniel Ortega has been criticized for not implementing stricter health measures to slow the spread of the virus. Nicaragua has 170 confirmed deaths, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.
___
MADRID - The coronavirus pandemic has crushed Spain’s key tourism industry, with visitors dropping from 84 million to 19 million last year.
The decrease snapped a seven-year trend of annual records. The National Statistics Institute says income from tourism plunged to just 20 billion euros ($24 billion) in 2020, a 79% decrease.
It was estimated that tourism represented some 11% of Spain’s 1.1 trillion-euro GDP before the pandemic. It has long ranked among the top three tourism destinations, along with France and the United States.
Authorities hope Spain’s vaccination program will boost confidence among travelers.
Spain aims for 30% to 40% of its population vaccinated in the second quarter and 70% during the summer.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/3/the-latest-s-korea-confirms-local-cases-of-virus-v/


#19
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 04.02.2021
Заглавие: Iran receives its first batch of foreign coronavirus vaccine


By Associated Press - Thursday, February 4, 2021
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) - Iran on Thursday received its first batch of foreign-made coronavirus vaccines as the country struggles to stem the worst outbreak of the pandemic in the Middle East.
The shipment consists of 500,000 doses of Russian-made Sputnik V vaccines which arrived at Tehran’s Imam Khomeieni International Airport from Moscow, the semi-official Fars news agency reported.
Also Iranian state TV quoted Tehran’s ambassador to Russia, Kazem Jalali, as saying that Iran has ordered 5 million doses from Russia. The next batches are to arrive on Feb. 18 and Feb. 28, said Jalali.
However, a report on the semi-official ISNA news agency appeared to contradict Jalali’s statement and the Fars report. ISNA quoted Mohammadreza Shanehsaz, head of Iran’s food and drug organization, as saying Thursday’s shipment included only 10,000 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine.
The conflicting reports could not be immediately reconciled. Shanehsaz also said that Iran had purchased 2 million dozes, Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
Last month, Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei banned Iran from importing the American Pfizer-BioNTech and Britain’s Astrazeneca vaccines, a reflection of mistrust toward the West.
The coronavirus has so far infected over 1.4 million people in Iran and killed more than 58,000.
In December, Iran began testing an Iranian-made vaccine in humans and said it expects to distribute it in spring, an extremely aggressive timeline. Before this year’s fast-tracked development of coronavirus vaccines, the usual methods of testing a vaccine for safety and efficacy with mass trials could take up to a decade.
The country has also began working on a joint vaccine with Cuba. It is also planning to import some 17 million doses of vaccine from COVAX and millions from other countries. But Iran is struggling to transfer some $220 million held in South Korean banks to pay for the COVID-19 vaccines through COVAX, an international program designed to distribute coronavirus vaccines to participating countries.
The government in Tehran has touted Iran’s domestic vaccine research, repeatedly alleging that tough American sanctions undermine its efforts to purchase foreign-made vaccines and launch mass inoculation campaigns like those underway in the U.S. and Europe. While U.S. sanctions do have specific carve-outs for medicine and humanitarian aid to Iran, international banks and financial institutions hesitate in dealing with Iranian transactions for fear of being fined or locked out of the American market.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/4/iran-receives-its-first-batch-of-foreign-coronavir/


#20
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 05.02.2021
Название статьи: EU’s top diplomat hopes Sputnik V will be approved in bloc


By Associated Press - Friday, February 5, 2021
BRUSSELS (AP) - The European Union’s top diplomat expressed hopes Friday that the COVID-19 vaccine developed by Russia will soon be used across the 27-nation bloc.
During a visit to Moscow, EU foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell said the country’s Sputnik V vaccine is “good news for the whole mankind.”
The vaccine was approved by the Russian government in August and many foreign governments have expressed interest in buying doses.
Russian scientists said it appears safe and effective against COVID-19, according to early results of an advanced study published in the British medical journal The Lancet. Researchers said that based on a fall trial involving about 20,000 people in Russia, the vaccine is about 91% effective and appears to prevent inoculated individuals from becoming severely ill.
The EU has signed six contracts for more than 2 billion doses of various vaccines, but only three of them have been approved for use so far and the delivery of shots has been disturbed by production delays.
Howard goes toe-to-toe with Notre Dame in 'historic' college basketball matchup
“Now I’m hoping that the European Medical Agency will be able to certify the efficiency of this vaccine in order to be used also in the European Union states,” Borrell said. “It will be good news because we are facing a shortage of vaccines.”
The EU’s medical agency has not yet received a request for marketing authorization for the Sputnik V vaccine. It said this week that the developer has submitted a request for scientific advice to the agency and a meeting has been held “to discuss their development plan and their further engagement with the agency.”
A key element EMA is looking at before approving marketing authorization of vaccines is the drugmakers’ capacity to manufacture doses in the EU.
The EU commission has not announced plans for a collective purchase of Sputnik doses, so far relying on the deals it sealed with other manufacturers. But member states can also decide to negotiate separate agreements outside the commission’s umbrella as long as they don’t compete with the advance purchase agreement negotiated by the EU’s executive arm.
Russian Foreign Affairs Minister Sergey Lavrov said he had intensive contacts with European counterparts about vaccines and that German Chancellor Angela Merkel discussed with President Vladimir Putin the opportunity to develop cooperation between Germany and Russia.
“I think cooperation in the field plays a positive role,” he said.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/5/eus-top-diplomat-hopes-sputnik-v-will-be-approved-/


#21
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 05.02.2021 
Заглавие: Czech PM in Hungary to discuss Russian, Chinese vaccines


By JUSTIN SPIKE - Associated Press - Friday, February 5, 2021
BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) - The Czech Republic could be on the way to become the next European Union member to seek a COVID-19 vaccine outside the bloc’s common procurement program, after its prime minister visited Hungary Friday to consult with authorities on their experiences with Russian and Chinese vaccines.
Andrej Babis met with Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orban in Budapest where the two leaders discussed Hungary’s purchase of the Russian Sputnik V and Chinese Sinopharm vaccines, neither of which have been approved by the EU medicines regulator.
At a press conference following the meeting, Babis said he had received detailed information on Hungary’s methods of approving and acquiring vaccines outside the EU’s procurement framework.
“Vaccines are not a political question, but one of safety,” Babis said, adding that the origin of a vaccine should not influence decisions on whether to use it.
“We need a safe vaccine and we need it now … I do all I can to get as many vaccines as possible, if they’re safe,” he said.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
Both Orban and Babis have been critical of the EU’s slow vaccine rollout, and suggested that countries pursuing their own procurement agreements would receive doses faster. In January, Hungary became the only EU country to issue emergency approval to Sputnik V, and approved the Sinopharm vaccine last week.
The country received 40,000 doses of Sputnik V on Tuesday and could begin administering them next week, Orban said in a Friday interview with public radio.
Babis was accompanied to Budapest by a team of health experts, including his adviser and former health minister Roman Prymula, who consulted with Hungarian authorities on vaccination strategies.
Speaking to journalists before departing for the Hungarian capital, the prime minister acknowledged that the pandemic was worsening in his country, where nearly 17,000 people have lost their lives to the virus so far.
More than 327,000 people have been vaccinated in the Czech Republic, according to its health ministry.
Babis will travel to Belgrade next Wednesday where he will confer with the Serbian government on its experiences with the pandemic, he told journalists early Friday. Serbia, like Hungary, has authorized the use of Sinopharm and Sputnik V, and has received around 300,000 doses of the Russian jab so far.
The Balkan country has administered around 7.7 doses per 100 people of the Pfizer, Sputnik and Sinopharm vaccines, more than any country in Europe except the United Kingdom.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/5/czech-pm-in-hungary-to-discuss-russian-chinese-vac/


#22
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 09.02.2021
Заглавие: Serbia leader says nation among top in Europe in vaccination


By Associated Press - Tuesday, February  9, 2021
BELGRADE, Serbia (AP) - Thanks mostly to the Chinese and Russian vaccines, Serbia expects to take one of the leading positions in Europe when it comes to the rate of vaccination against the new coronavirus, the Serbian president said Tuesday.
Aleksandar Vucic announced the arrival of an additional 500,000 doses of Chinese Sinopharm vaccines, in addition to 100,000 doses of Russian-developed Sputnik V and 88,000 of U.S.-German Pfizer-BioNTech shots.
The initial shipment in mid-January of a million Chinese vaccines has given Serbia a jumpstart in the vaccination rollout in the Balkans and beyond.
Both the Chinese and Russian vaccines have yet to be approved by the European Medicines Agency.
“I am proud to say that this will ensure that Serbia takes the first or second position in entire Europe regarding the number of vaccinated people,” said Vucic, who has praised his administration for the inoculation that included lesser doses of Pfizer-BioNTech shots. “This speaks of great work and huge effort and I would like to congratulate everyone.”
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
The populist Serbian leader has been strengthening close political ties with Russia and China while formally seeking entry into the European Union. Vucic has publicly thanked Moscow and Beijing for delivering the vaccines.
There have been widespread concerns in the EU about the safety and effectiveness of the Chinese and Russian vaccines, as they haven’t followed all required trials before getting approval in their countries. However, Hungary has broken ranks with the EU by granting provisional licenses to both Sinopharm and Sputnik V.
So far, Serbia, a country of 7 million people, has vaccinated more than 500,000 people with the first dose and started giving out the second one.
Vucic says a first batch of AstraZeneca vaccines is expected to arrive in Serbia by the end of February. A new round of mass vaccination as well as revaccination will start later this week, he announced.
Vucic said that Serbia has secured the vaccines through direct contracts and is yet to receive its share of jabs envisaged through the U.N.-backed COVAX Facility, along with other Western Balkan countries that are waiting for the shipments.
Chinese President Xi Jinping said Beijing is ready to consider “vaccine cooperation” with Central and Eastern European countries in a meeting held by videoconference with Vucic and other European leaders.
Serbia has reported more than 400,000 cases of the new coronavirus since the start of the outbreak, while 4,154 people have died.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/9/serbia-leader-says-nation-among-top-in-europe-in-v/


#23
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 09.02.2021
Заглавие:  Iran starts limited COVID-19 vaccinations with Russian shots


By Associated Press - Tuesday, February 9, 2021
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) — Iran on Tuesday launched a coronavirus inoculation campaign among health care professionals with recently delivered Russian Sputnik V vaccines as the country struggles to stem the worst outbreak of the pandemic in the Middle East with its death toll nearing 59,000.
At a ceremony marking the start of the campaign, Parsa Namaki, son of Health Minister Saeed Namaki, received his first dose. The minister said the vaccination would be simultaneously carried out in more than 600 medical centers across the country.
In the coming weeks, Iran plans to extend the vaccination to elderly people and those suffering from chronic diseases, the minister added. “We have to vaccinate vulnerable groups.”
COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, has so far claimed the lives of more than 300 health care professionals in Iran.
Last Thursday, Iran received its first batch of foreign-made coronavirus vaccines from Russia. Iran has so far reported some 1.48 million confirmed cases of the virus. Iranian media have reported that a total of 2 million Russian vaccines will arrive in Iran in February and March.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
Though the daily death toll has remained under 100 for weeks, authorities warn about a possible surge in March as many ignore distancing measures in public places.
Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has banned imports of the American and Britain vaccines, a reflection of mistrust toward the West. In December, Iran began testing an Iranian-made vaccine in humans and said it expects to distribute it in spring. The country has also began working on a joint vaccine with Cuba, too.
Iran is also planning to import some 17 million doses of vaccine from COVAX and millions from other countries.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/9/iran-starts-limited-covid-vaccinations-with-russia/


#24
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 11.02.2021 
Заглавие: Serbia says it’s ready for Russian vaccine production


By Associated Press - Thursday, February 11, 2021
BELGRADE, Serbia (AP) - Serbia is ready to domestically produce the Russian Sputnik V vaccine after successfully using it and a Chinese-developed shot in its inoculation campaign, officials said Thursday.
A team of Russian experts arrived in Serbia on Thursday to evaluate technical details of the arrangement, which many see as another Serbian step away from a proclaimed goal of streamlining its foreign policies and actions with the European Union before eventually joining the bloc.
Russia’s ambassador to Serbia denied politics is involved in the so-called vaccination diplomacy.
“Russia does not think at all about global confrontation or bidding” over the supply of vaccines, Aleksandr Botsan-Kharchenko said.
Serbia, a country of 7 million, so far has vaccinated some 550,000 people, mainly with the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine and Sputnik V, and to a lesser extent with the Pfizer-BioNTech shots
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
Although formally seeking EU membership, the populist Serbian leadership has cultivated close ties with China and Russia which are vying for influence in strategically important Balkan region.
Serbian government minister Nenad Popovic said the first stage of cooperation with the Russian Sputnik V producer would include the import of raw materials, packaging and distribution at home and abroad.
“The full production cycle will take nine to ten months,” Popovic said, adding that quantities could also be produced for export.
Both the Chinese and Russian vaccines have yet to be approved by the European Medicines Agency. But with delays in the deliveries of Western-made vaccines, several European states, including EU members, are mulling the use of Sputnik V.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/11/serbia-says-its-ready-for-russian-vaccine-producti/


#25
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 12.02.2021
Заглавие: Chinese vaccine will pull Hungary ahead of EU, PM says


By JUSTIN SPIKE - Associated Press - Friday, February 12, 2021
BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) - Hungary will be able to vaccinate millions more people against the coronavirus by the end of May than other European countries with similarly sized populations due to its plans to use a vaccine made in China, the Hungarian prime minister predicted in a radio interview Friday.
“If we start using the Chinese vaccine, which will happen soon, then by Easter we can vaccinate every person who has registered so far,” Prime Minister Viktor Orban said, referring to the nearly 2.5 million people who have signed up to receive COVID-19 vaccines in the country of nearly 10 million.
“As things stand now, that will be 6.8 million people by the end of May or beginning of June,” Orban continued. “If we compare Hungary’s vaccination plan with the European situation, then Hungary can vaccinate 3.5 million more people by the end of May than a European country of the same size and population. I think this is huge.”
Orban’s government has criticized the pace of the European Union’s vaccine rollout and in recent months sought vaccines from countries outside the bloc’s common procurement program. A government decree streamlined Hungary’s vaccine approval process by allowing any vaccine administered to at least 1 million people worldwide to be used without undergoing review by the country’s medicines regulator.
Hungarian health authorities last month approved the jab developed by China’s state-owned company Sinopharm and also authorized use of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine.
A Hungarian government official on Thursday said the first shipment of a half-million doses of the Sinopharm vaccine would arrive next week for assessment by Hungary’s National Public Health Center. Chief Medical Officer Cecilia Muller said at a press conference Friday that vaccinations with Sputnik V had started at four hospitals in the capital of Budapest
Hungary has purchased enough Sputnik V doses to treat 1 million people and enough Sinopharm doses to treat 2.5 million. It was unclear whether Orban’s May projection was simply the number of vaccines the country has purchased outside the EU’s procurement program.
The prime minister has rejected arguments that only vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency, the EU’s medicines regulator, should be approved for use in Hungary.
“Why would we think that the Europeans are smarter than we are?” Orban said Friday. “This isn’t true. Our professionals are at least as good as any European professional, and I don’t trust a (vaccine) analysis in Brussels more than I do in a Hungarian one. In fact, just the opposite.”
Orban said the increasing proportion of Hungarians receiving COVID-19 shots should be enough to prevent the need for new pandemic restrictions in Hungary, despite recent increases in the number of confirmed cases and deaths.
Since Nov. 11, the country’s infection-control measures have included an 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew. a requirement for shops to close at 7 p.m., and limiting restaurants to take-out and delivery service have been in place. The restrictions are expected to remain in force until at least March 1.
As of Friday, 13,543 people had died in Hungary of coronavirus-related causes and 310,448 had received at least a first dose of a vaccine, around 4.2 per 100 people in the population.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/12/chinese-vaccine-will-pull-hungary-ahead-of-eu-pm-s/


#26
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 14.02.2021
Заглавие: Serbia donates Pfizer COVID-19 vaccines to North Macedonia


By Associated Press - Sunday, February 14, 2021
BELGRADE, Serbia (AP) - Serbia on Sunday donated a first batch of 8,000 doses of Pfizer COVID-19 vaccines to North Macedonia, which is yet to deliver its first jabs.
Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic and North Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev attended a border checkpoint handover ceremony of the shipment, praising friendship between the two neighboring Balkan states.
Serbia, a country of 7 million, has so far vaccinated some 600,000 people, mainly with the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine and Russian Sputnik V, and to a lesser extent with the Pfizer jab. The country has been one of the most successful in Europe in terms of how fast it has rolled out the vaccine among its population.
By contrast, North Macedonia, like most of other Western Balkan countries, has not yet secured a single dose of the coronavirus vaccine for its population of 2.1 million. Many of the states in the region are reconsidering their strategy of waiting for Western-supplied shots and are mulling the purchase of the Chinese and Russian ones.
“A friend in need is a friend indeed,” Vucic said, while Zaev praised him for showing the “real solidarity in practice.”
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
The vaccine handover had to be postponed last week because Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech had demanded “additional documentation” from Serbia on the re-export of its shots, Vucic said.
Vucic’s opponents in Serbia have called his vaccine donation to North Macedonia another of his populist political moves meant to portray him as the main regional leader. They say many in Serbia are still waiting in line to get inoculated with their first choice Pfizer shots.
Earlier this week, North Macedonian authorities signed an agreement to procure 200,000 doses of the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine, with which they hope to launch their vaccination program later this month.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/14/serbia-donates-pfizer-covid-19-vaccines-to-north-m/


#27
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 15.02.2021
Заглавие: Palestinians say Israel blocks shipment of vaccines to Gaza


By JOSEPH KRAUSS - Associated Press - Monday, February 15, 2021
RAMALLAH, West Bank (AP) - The Palestinian Authority said Monday that Israel was preventing it from sending coronavirus vaccines to the Gaza Strip that are intended for frontline medical workers in the territory controlled by the Islamic militant group Hamas.
Palestinian Health Minister Mai Alkaila said in a statement that Israel bore “full responsibility” for blocking the shipment of 2,000 doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine that were acquired by the PA, which governs parts of the Israeli-occupied West Bank.
The PA has said it will share its vaccine supply with Gaza, where the Islamic militant group Hamas seized power from its forces in 2007. The territory, which is home to more than 2 million Palestinians, has yet to receive any vaccines. Authorities there have reported more than 53,000 cases and at least 537 deaths since the start of the pandemic.
Israel and Egypt have imposed a blockade on Gaza since the Hamas takeover. Some Israeli lawmakers have said Israel should only allow in vaccines in return for progress on the release of two captive Israelis and the remains of two Israeli soldiers being held by Hamas.
An Israeli official said Israel has received a request to allow 1,000 Sputnik V doses to be delivered to Gaza that was still being debated late Monday.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
“It wasn’t blocked. They are still contemplating it,” the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss high-level deliberations.
In a discussion on Monday in Israel’s foreign affairs and defense committee, Chairman Zvi Hauser asked a representative from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s National Security Council for details on the vaccine transfer policy.
Hauser asked if the government “intends to demand the return of bodies and captives or demand that the Red Cross be allowed to visit the captives there, or at least ask for information about them.” He also expressed concern that the vaccines would go to Hamas and not medical workers.
The National Security Council official, Roi Binyamini, told the panel that the government had no intention of sharing Israel’s own supply of vaccines with Gaza. But he said the government was weighing requests from other parties to allow the PA to deliver its own vaccines to Gaza. He said he expected a decision to be made quickly.
Israel has launched one of the world’s most successful vaccination programs, inoculating more than a third of its population of 9.3 million since December.
Rights groups say it has an obligation as an occupying power to share its vaccines with the Palestinians. Israel denies having such an obligation and says its priority is its own citizens. The Palestinian Authority has not publicly requested vaccines from Israel and says it has secured its own supply through the World Health Organization and agreements with drug makers.
Still, Israel provided 2,000 doses of the Moderna vaccine to the PA earlier this month, allowing it to begin vaccinating medical workers, and the PA says it independently acquired another 10,000 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine. It would need Israel’s permission to transfer them to Gaza.
Hamas is believed to be holding two captives, an Israeli of Ethiopian descent who entered Gaza shortly after the 2014 war and an Arab Bedouin citizen of Israel. It is also holding the remains of two Israeli soldiers killed in the war. In exchange, Hamas is likely to demand the release of a large number of Palestinian prisoners held by Israel, including individuals implicated in deadly attacks.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/15/palestinians-say-israel-blocks-shipment-of-vaccine/


#28
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 16.02.2021
Заглавие: Chinese vaccine arrives in Hungary, a first in the EU


By Justin Spike - Associated Press - Tuesday, February 16, 2021
BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) — A shipment of a COVID-19 vaccines produced in China arrived in Hungary on Tuesday, making it the first of the European Union‘s 27 nations to receive a Chinese vaccine.
A jet carrying 550,000 vaccine doses developed by the Chinese state-owned company Sinopharm landed at Budapest’s international airport after flying in from Beijing. The shipment is enough to treat 275,000 people with the two-dose jab, Dr. Agnes Galgoczy of the National Public Health Center told a press conference.
“With this vaccine, five different types are now available in Hungary so that we may get as many people vaccinated as quickly as possible,” Galgoczy said, adding that vaccine shots won’t begin until the shipment is evaluated by the National Public Health Center.
Hungarian health authorities were the first in the EU to approve the Sinopharm jab for emergency use on Jan. 29. That came after a government decree streamlined Hungary’s vaccine approval process by allowing any vaccine administered to at least 1 million people worldwide to be used without undergoing review by the country’s medicines regulator.
The country expects to receive 5 million total doses of the Sinopharm vaccine over the next four months, enough to treat 2.5 million people in the country of nearly 10 million.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
Hungarian officials, including Prime Minister Viktor Orban, have been critical of the EU‘s common vaccine procurement program, claiming the bloc’s slow rollout of shots is costing lives.
“If vaccines aren’t coming from Brussels, we must obtain them from elsewhere … One cannot allow Hungarians to die simply because Brussels is too slow in procuring vaccines,” Orban said last month.
Hungary has also agreed to purchase 2 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine, which hospitals began administering in Budapest last week.
On Friday, Orban claimed these additional vaccines from Russia and China will enable Hungary to vaccinate millions more people by the end of May than other European countries with similar populations.
“As things stand now, (we can vaccinate) 6.8 million people by the end of May or beginning of June,” Orban said in a radio interview. “I think this is huge.”
The Sinopharm vaccine, which the developer says is nearly 80% effective, is already in use in Hungary’s non-EU neighbor Serbia, where around half a million ethnic Hungarians have already received the jab. The company has not yet released data on the results of the vaccine’s stage 3 trials.
The new vaccines shipment represents around 40% of all COVID-19 vaccine doses that Hungary has received so far, and makes Sinopharm nearly equally prevalent in Hungary as the Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine.
But recent polling shows that some Hungarians are reluctant to receive the Sinopharm jab. A survey of 1,000 people in the capital of Budapest by pollster Median and the 21 Research Center showed that among those willing to receive a vaccine, only 27% would take a Chinese vaccine, compared to 43% a Russian vaccine and 84% a jab developed in Western countries. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 3%.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/16/chinese-vaccine-arrives-in-hungary-a-first-in-the-/


#29
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 17.02.2021 
Заглавие: Estonia report: Russia bets on COVID-19 weakening the West


By JARI TANNER - Associated Press - Wednesday, February 17, 2021
HELSINKI (AP) - Estonia’s foreign intelligence agency said Wednesday that Russia is counting on the COVID-19 pandemic to weaken unity in the West which would help Moscow gain a more prominent role in international affairs and lead to “declining Western influence on the global stage.”
The Kremlin thinks the pandemic will force Western nations to focus on domestic policy and economic problems and facilitate the emergence of populist and extremist movements, the Estonian Foreign Intelligence Service said in its annual report.
“For its part, Russia is prepared to add fuel to the flames to encourage these trends,” the report states. “Therefore, 2021 will again see Russian influence operations designed to create and deepen divides within and between Western societies, including at the EU (European Union) level.”
The authors of the 79-page document said Russia’s strategy would likely include attempts to discredit COVID-19 vaccines developed in Western countries, especially the one made by British-Swedish company AstraZeneca. Russian propaganda has labeled the vaccine AstraZeneca developed with Oxford University in England as a “monkey vaccine.”
“With these smear campaigns, Russia hopes, on the one hand, to create a more favorable position for its own vaccines on the world market and on the other hand, to promote its strategic ambition to show itself as being the first among the major powers to provide a solution to the COVID-19 crisis,” the report said.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
The Russian government did not offer an immediate reaction to the intelligence report from Estonia, a former Soviet republic. Moscow has repeatedly denied similar Western claims of malign intentions in the past. It also has accused the West of trying to discredit the Russia-produced COVID-19 vaccine, Sputnik V.
Russia is actively promoting Sputnik V in several European nations, including Serbia. Hungary was the first and so far only European Union nation to have purchase quantities of Sputnik V.
“The coronavirus epidemic hasn’t diminished the actions and ambitions of (Russian President Vladimir) Putin’s regime. On the contrary, we can see how there is an attempt to utilize the pandemic to reap gains for (Russia’s) domestic and foreign policy,” the Estonian agency’s Director General Mikk Marran told reporters during a news conference in Tallinn, the nation’s capital.
Addressing the new U.S. leadership and President Joe Biden, the report said that Russia’s agenda toward Washington isn’t likely to significantly change and will remain “largely confrontational.”
Estonia’s relations with neighboring Russia have remained chilly ever since 1991, when the Baltic nation of 1.3 million and its neighbors Latvia and Lithuania regained their independence amid the fall of the Soviet Union. The three countries have since joined NATO and the European Union.
Though focusing largely on events in Russia or in neighboring nations such as Belarus and Ukraine, the report also discussed developments in China. It said Beijing’s ambitious plan to become the global leader in technology “poses major security threats” to the rest of the world.
New generation 5G mobile networks, advanced satellite navigation technology, cloud services and artificial intelligence were listed in the report as examples of where China either has or hopes to play a key global role.
China’s “leadership has a clear objective of making the world dependent on Chinese technology,” the document states.
The report’s authors also warned Estonia’s leadership that integrating the country “into China’s autonomous technology ecosystem makes Estonia vulnerable and dependent on China.”
Estonia previously banned China’s Huawei, the world’s leading 5G technology provider, from supplying technology and equipment to the government, citing security concerns.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/17/estonia-report-russia-bets-on-covid-19-weakening-t/


#30
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 17.02.2021 
Заглавие: After delay, Israel allows vaccines into Hamas-run Gaza


By FARES AKRAM and JOSEPH KRAUSS - Associated Press - Wednesday, February 17, 2021
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) - Israel allowed the Palestinian Authority to deliver the first coronavirus vaccines to the Gaza Strip on Wednesday despite objections from Israeli lawmakers who suggested they be used as a bargaining chip for the release of captives held by the territory’s militant Hamas rulers.
Israel has faced international criticism for largely excluding Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza from its highly successful vaccination campaign. It held up the shipment for two days as the government faced questioning from a parliamentary committee before ultimately approving it.
The dispute highlights the Palestinians’ reliance on Israel even as they struggle to combat the pandemic on their own. It’s also a potent example of global inequality in the rollout of vaccines, most of which have been scooped up by wealthy countries.
The shipment finally arrived midday Wednesday at the Kerem Shalom crossing. Palestinian Health Minister Mai Alkaila said the PA sent 2,000 doses of the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine - enough to inoculate only 1,000 people in an impoverished territory that is home to 2 million Palestinians.
Gaza has been under a crippling Israeli-Egyptian blockade since Hamas, an Islamic militant group, seized power from PA forces in 2007. Gaza’s Health Ministry has reported more than 53,000 cases and at least 538 deaths since the start of the pandemic, and authorities have been reluctant to impose widespread lockdowns because the territory is already mired in poverty.
Gallup: Support for Democrats plunged, GOP surged as Biden struggled with virus, Afghanistan
Israel and Hamas have fought three wars and numerous skirmishes since the militant group took control of Gaza.
In an interview Wednesday with Israel’s army radio station, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he was working on bringing captive Israelis back from Gaza, but did not link the issue to vaccines. He noted the vaccines were from Palestinian supplies, and said it was important that Palestinians be vaccinated because the virus can easily cross into Israel.
“This is not from Israeli supplies,” he said. “I am committed to bringing back the prisoners and the missing in action at any price. We are working on this these days, but the epidemiological issue is not connected.”
During Monday’s parliamentary debate, Zvi Hauser, chair of the foreign affairs and defense committee, argued that the vaccine delivery should be linked to progress on the release of two Israeli captives held by Hamas and the remains of two Israeli soldiers killed in a 2014 war. He also expressed concern that vaccines would go to Hamas members rather than medics.
Ahmad Tibi, an Arab member of parliament, called the discussion “shameful,” saying: “In 20 years, your children will also be ashamed of this position of vaccination prevention.”
The Palestinian Authority said the first doses would go to front-line medical workers. But Ashraf al-Qedra, spokesman for the Gaza Health Ministry, said they would be administered in two phases, first to vulnerable patients and then to health care workers.
“The amount is very small and not enough to cover all 12,000 medical workers,” he said. “We think it’s better to first inoculate vulnerable patients, such as organ transplant and dialysis patients.”
The ministry said vaccinations would begin Sunday due to inclement winter weather that could make it dangerous for patients to travel to hospitals.
Israel has launched one of the world’s most successful vaccination programs, inoculating more than a third of its population of 9.3 million since December after securing millions of doses from pharmaceutical giants Pfizer and Moderna.
Rights groups say it has an obligation as an occupying power to share its vaccines with the Palestinians. Israel captured east Jerusalem, the West Bank and Gaza in the 1967 war, territories the Palestinians want for their future state.
Israel denies having such an obligation and says its priority is its own citizens. It is vaccinating Palestinian residents of annexed east Jerusalem, which it considers part of its capital. Israel withdrew troops from Gaza in 2005, and it says the Palestinian Authority is responsible for health care in the territories it administers according to interim peace agreements.
The Palestinian Authority, which governs parts of the occupied West Bank, has not publicly requested vaccines from Israel and says it has secured its own supply through the World Health Organization and agreements with drug makers.
Still, Israel provided 2,000 doses of the Moderna vaccine to the PA earlier this month, allowing it to begin vaccinating medical workers, and the PA says it independently acquired 10,000 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine.
Hamas is believed to be holding two captives, an Israeli of Ethiopian descent who entered Gaza shortly after the 2014 war, and an Arab Bedouin citizen of Israel. In exchange, Hamas is likely to demand the release of a large number of Palestinian prisoners held by Israel, including individuals implicated in deadly attacks.
Krauss reported from Jerusalem. Associated Press writers Josef Federman and Ilan Ben Zion in Jerusalem contributed.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/17/palestinian-authority-says-it-has-sent-vaccines-to/


#31
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 17.02.2021
Заглавие: Central European leaders push for faster vaccine deliveries
By MONIKA SCISLOWSKA - Associated Press - Wednesday, February 17, 2021
WARSAW, Poland (AP) - Central European leaders pushed Wednesday for faster deliveries of COVID-19 vaccines from every reliable manufacturer to speed up inoculations which they said is the way to conquer the pandemic and jump-start Europe’s economic recovery.
The leaders of Hungary, Slovakia and Poland said they support purchasing vaccines from manufacturers regardless of “geopolitics” provided they are safe and effective. Hungary is the European Union’s first and so far only member state to administer Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine without waiting for approval from the European Medicines Agency.
“There is no Eastern or Western vaccine, there is only a good or a bad vaccine,” Hungary’s Prime Minister Viktor Orban told a news conference in Krakow, Poland. “It is not good to be too political about the health security of the people.”
The Hungarian leader said procuring safe and effective vaccines quickly is now more important than their cost.
Slovakia’s Prime Minister Igor Matowic and Mateusz Morawiecki of Poland backed Orban. The EU has not been receiving the full scheduled amounts of some 2 billion vaccine doses it has signed agreements for with Western drug makers.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
The leaders were speaking at a meeting to mark the 30th anniversary of the Visegrad Group, an informal body of political and economic cooperation between Poland, Hungary, The Czech republic and Slovakia. Hosted by Morawiecki, it brought together Orban, Matovic and Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis.
European Council President Charles Michel, who attended the celebrations, said EU leaders will discuss next week ways of increasing vaccine production and of speeding up inoculations.
The EU announced Wednesday that it has agreed to buy a further 300 million doses of Moderna’s vaccine and was pumping almost a quarter of a billion euros (almost $300 million) into efforts to counter the threat of coronavirus variants that are spreading throughout the continent.
The development came on top of an announcement by Pfizer and BioNTech that they had signed a deal to deliver an additional 200 million doses of their vaccine to the bloc.
Michel hailed the V4 group’s development and role in the EU but stressed that it must be “based on principles of democracy.”
The words seemed directed at Hungary and Poland that are seen as the EU’s recalcitrant members, often criticized for perceived political interference in areas like the judiciary and media freedom.
Orban said earlier Wednesday that the role of Central European nations is to help protect the EU from external threats but also against the bloc’s own “tendencies” at empire building, while guarding their own independence.
The leaders also signed a declaration of cooperation in the cyber sector.
The V4 was founded in February 1991 from a declaration of cooperation that then-Presidents Lech Walesa of Poland, Vaclav Havel of the former Czechoslovakia and Jozsef Antall of Hungary signed in Visegrad, Hungary. Those countries joined the EU in 2004.
Poland currently holds the group’s 12-month rotating presidency and will hand it over to Hungary on July 1.
After Wednesday’s meeting, Poland’s Morawiecki and Hungary’s Orban held bilateral talks and attended a ceremony at Wawel Castle for handing over a suit of armor made for 16th century King Sigismundus II Augustus that had been housed in a Budapest museum.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/17/central-european-leaders-urge-for-faster-vaccine-d/


#32
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 19.02.2021
Заглавие: Argentine health minister resigns amid vaccine scandal


By DEBORA REY - Associated Press - Friday, February 19, 2021
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina (AP) - President Alberto Fernández removed Argentina’s health minister Friday after a well-known local journalist said he had been given a coronavirus vaccination preferentially after requesting one from the minister.
The president “instructed his chief of staff to request the resignation of health minister” Ginés González García, who is in charge of the government’s COVID-19 strategy, said a government official, who was not authorized to release the information and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity.
The firing comes on the heels of reports in recent days that mayors, legislators, activists and people close to political power received vaccine shots despite not being in the priority group of doctors, health personnel and the elderly authorized to receive them.
In a Twitter post, González Garcia said he acceded to the president’s request to step down, but insisted he was forced out over a “misunderstanding.” He said that the “vaccinated people belong to the groups included within the target population of the current campaign.”
Carla Vizzotti, the No. 2 official at the ministry under González García, will take over as minister, the state news agency Télam said.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
The stir in Argentina follows an uproar in Peru last week after it was confirmed that more than 400 political officials and other prominent people, including then President Martín Vizcarra, secretly received doses of the vaccine produced by the Chinese pharmaceutical company Sinopharm before health professionals.
González Garcia’s removal came after journalist Horacio Verbitsky, whose stories and columns on a website and on the radio are seen as pro-government, said he called the minister to request a vaccination and González García summoned him to the Health Ministry where he received a Sputnik V vaccine shot Thursday.
“I decided to get vaccinated. I started to find out where to do it. I called my old friend Ginés González García, whom I have known long before he was a minister,” Verbitsky told a local radio station. “I went to the ministry and the team of vaccinators was there.”
Fernández’s government has been harshly criticized for Argentina’s slow vaccination operation. So far, the South American country has received about 1.5 million doses, mostly Sputnik V but also AstraZeneca, insufficient to immunize a population of 40 million.
Argentina has had 2 million people infected by the coronavirus and 50,857 deaths from COVID-19.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/19/argentine-health-minister-resigns-amid-vaccine-sca/


#33
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 21.02.2021
Заглавие: Reports: Israel buys vaccines for Syria in prisoner deal


By ILAN BEN ZION - Associated Press - Sunday, February 21, 2021
JERUSALEM (AP) - Israel paid Russia $1.2 million to provide the Syrian government with coronavirus vaccines as part of a deal that secured the release of an Israeli woman held captive in Damascus, according to Israeli media reports on Sunday.
The terms of the clandestine trade-off orchestrated by Moscow between the two nations remained murky. But the fact Israel is providing vaccines to Syria - an enemy country hosting hostile Iranian forces - drew criticism at home, and stands in contrast to Israel’s refusal to provide significant quantities of vaccines to Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Saturday “not one Israeli vaccine” was involved in the deal. He didn’t address whether Israel paid for Russian vaccines, and said Russia insisted details of the swap remain secret.
Netanyahu’s office declined comment, and many details of the agreement remained censored.
Labor Party leader Merav Michaeli called on the Knesset’s foreign affairs and defense committee to discuss the deal and Netanyahu’s “political, inappropriate use of censorship.”
Hong Kong to kill 2,000 small animals after hamsters get COVID-19
“Why do Israeli citizens consistently need to learn about things from foreign media that their prime minister is hiding from them?” she said on Israel’s Kan radio Sunday.
Israel announced Friday it had reached a Russian-mediated deal to bring home a young woman who had crossed into neighboring Syria earlier this month. In exchange, Israel said it released two Syrian shepherds who had entered Israeli territory.
Netanyahu boasted that his warm ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin helped clinch the deal. His office made no mention of any agreement to pay for vaccines for Syria.
The Israeli reports said Israel paid for an undisclosed number of doses of the Sputnik V vaccine. The Russian Direct Investment Fund, which financed development of Sputnik V, said in November it will cost less than $10 per dose internationally.
The Syrian state news agency denied the deal exists.
The released 25-year-old Israeli woman returned to Israel via Moscow and was questioned by Israel’s internal security agency. She hails from the predominantly ultra-Orthodox West Bank settlement of Modiin Illit and previously attempted to cross Israel’s borders with the Gaza Strip and Jordan, according to Israeli media.
The woman reportedly crossed into Syrian territory from the Golan Heights, which Israel captured in the 1967 Mideast war and annexed in 1981, a move not widely recognized internationally. Her identity and motivation for crossing into Syria were not released by Israeli officials.
Gideon Saar, a former Netanyahu ally who is running to unseat him in upcoming Israeli elections, said Sunday the government’s “censorship of something that Damascus and Moscow know about, and Israeli citizens don’t, is incomprehensible.”
Israel and Syria remain in an official state of war and Israeli citizens are officially prohibited from visiting Syria.
Israel’s archenemy Iran has sent troops to support Syrian President Bashar Assad against rebel groups. Israel considers Iranian entrenchment on its northern frontier to be a red line and has carried out hundreds of airstrikes on Iranian-linked facilities and suspected weapons convoys destined for the Iranian-backed Hezbollah militant group.
Israel has provided some humanitarian aid to groups unaffiliated with Assad and provided medical treatment to thousands of Syrians who reached the Golan Heights frontier.
Netanyahu’s reported agreement to pay for vaccines to an enemy country contrasts with his refusal to provide large quantities of vaccines to Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza, drawing outcry from human rights organizations.
The disparities between Israel’s successful vaccination push with its own population and the Palestinians have drawn criticism from U.N. officials and rights groups and have shined a light on the inequities between rich and poor countries getting access to vaccines.
These groups contend that Israel is responsible for vaccinating the Palestinians, while Israel has argued that it is not responsible for vaccinating them and that under interim peace agreements reached in the 1990s, the internationally backed Palestinian Authority must see to vaccinating its own population. Israel’s vaccination campaign has included its own Arab population.
The Palestinian Authority has not publicly asked for Israeli assistance, saying it is procuring vaccines on its own and through a World Health Organization for poorer nations. But earlier this month, Israel agreed to share 2,000 vaccines with the Palestinians to inoculate medical workers in the West Bank.
Ahmad Tibi, a lawmaker with the Joint List of Arab parties in Israel’s Knesset, wrote on Twitter on Friday: “Must we wait for a Jewish person to cross the border with Gaza for them to deserve vaccines?”
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/21/reports-israel-buys-vaccines-for-syria-in-prisoner/


#34
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 22.02.2021
Заглавие:  The Latest: Mexico receives shipment of Sputnik V vaccine 


By The Associated Press - Associated Press - Monday, February 22, 2021 
MEXICO CITY - Mexico has received its first shipment of Russia’s Sputnik V COVID-19 vaccine.
Some 200,000 doses arrived to Mexico City’s international airport late Monday night aboard a British Airways flight from Moscow. Officials plan to use the doses to begin vaccinating seniors in the capital’s most marginalized boroughs on Wednesday. Mexico Foreign Affairs Secretary Marcelo Ebrard confirmed their arrival via Twitter.
Mexico received its first shipment of vaccines from Pfizer in mid-December, but turned to Sputnik V in January when other expected vaccine shipments were delayed. Sputnik too arrives later than initially expected. Mexico President Andrés Manuel López Obrador spoke with Russia President Vladimir Putin in late January.
In early February, Mexican regulators gave Sputnik V emergency approval and the government signed a contract to bring 400,000 doses to Mexico in February. It was unclear when the next shipment of Sputnik would arrive.
THE VIRUS OUTBREAK:
- Researchers in Scotland say its COVID-19 vaccination program has caused hospitalizations to plummet
- British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to lay out plan to ease coronavirus restrictions but pubs, gyms and hairdressers to stay closed for weeks
- Russia’s vaccine rollout picks up speed but experts say the campaign is still moving slowly
- Elementary schools and kindergartens reopen in over half of Germany’s 16 states
- Every Democratic vote is needed on $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill, but minimum wage and other issues will force choices
HERE’S WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING:
MANILA, Philippines - The Philippine president will reject recommendations to further ease coronavirus quarantine restrictions across the country until a delayed vaccination campaign kicks off, his spokesman said.
President Rodrigo Duterte also rejected a plan to resume face-to-face school classes in some pilot areas until vaccinations, which have been set back by delays in the arrival of initial batches of COVID-19 vaccine, have been launched, presidential spokesman Harry Roque said.
The scheduled delivery on Tuesday of 600,000 doses from Sinovac Biotech Ltd. was postponed anew after the China-based company failed to immediately secure an emergency-use permit from Manila’s Food and Drug Administration. Sinovac got the authorization Monday.
Top economic officials have asked Duterte to consider further easing quarantine restrictions in the country starting in March to bolster the economy, which has suffered one of the worst recessions in the region, and stave off hunger. But Duterte rejected the recommendations.
“The chief executive recognizes the importance of re-opening the economy and its impact on people’s livelihoods,” Roque said but added that the president “gives higher premium to public health and safety.”
The Philippines has reported more than 563,000 confirmed cases of COVID-19 infections and more than 12,000 deaths, the second highest in Southeast Asia. The government has faced criticisms for failing to immediately launch a massive vaccine campaign for about 70 million Filipinos.
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — California lawmakers on Monday cleared the way for 5.7 million people to get at least $600 in one-time payments, part of a state-sized coronavirus relief package aimed at helping lower-income people weather what they hope is the last legs of the pandemic.
The state Legislature passed the bill by a wide margin on Monday, moving faster than their counterparts in Congress who are also considering another round of stimulus checks for the nation. 
Gov. Gavin Newsom said he will sign it into law on Tuesday. People who are eligible for the money should get it at between 45 days and 60 days after receiving their state tax refunds, according to the Franchise Tax Board.
People with low to moderate incomes will be eligible to get the money. That includes people who claim the California earned income tax credit on their tax returns and, in general, people making $30,000 or less per year.
Immigrants who pay taxes using an individual taxpayer identification number and make $75,000 a year or less after deductions would also get the money. People who receive assistance from state programs benefiting low-income families and people who are blind and disabled are also eligible.
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — Gov. Gavin Newsom says more vaccines are headed to California’s vast Central Valley, an agricultural region that’s been hit hard by coronavirus.
In the small farming city of Arvin on Monday, Newsom said that 11 mobile clinics will open in the region later this week. The facilities are designed to vaccinate people, mostly farmworkers, who don’t have transportation to larger vaccination sites or can’t navigate the state’s online signup portal.
He says the state is also sending 34,000 extra vaccine doses there from a pharmacy that wasn’t using them quickly enough.
The shift in allocations comes as California moves beyond inoculating health care workers to include food and farm workers and teachers.
SEATTLE - Seattle Public Schools is delaying a return to the classroom for its youngest students during the coronavirus pandemic by at least a week because it has yet to reach an agreement with the teachers’ union. 
In a statement Monday the district said it had not yet negotiated new working conditions with the Seattle Education Association. Previously the district had hoped to begin some in-person learning on March 8. That is now delayed until at least March 8. 
Last week Gov. Jay Inslee urged more schools to open up to in-person instruction, saying the online classroom experience wasn’t adequate for many. 
Seattle is the state’s largest district, with about 50,000 students. The district had hoped to give parents the option to have preschool, kindergarten, first grade and special education students return for some classroom instruction. 
The Seattle teachers’ union said it wants specific language on COVID-19 safety protocols put in writing. The union said it was working to reach an agreement quickly, “but we’re unwilling to cut corners on safety precautions in order to meet arbitrary deadlines.”
___
JACKSON, Miss. — Mississippi saw a steep decline in COVID-19 vaccinations last week as several drive-thru vaccination sites were closed because of freezing temperatures and icy roads.
The state Department of Health said Monday that 32,540 vaccinations were given in the state during the week that ended Saturday. That is down from 106,691 the previous week, which was Mississippi’s busiest week for the vaccinations so far. 
The department said it is automatically rescheduling appointments that had to be canceled at 21 drive-thru sites, and people are being notified by text or email. 
More people than usual are being scheduled for COVID-19 vaccinations in the state this week, and some appointments will be during the weekend. The Health Department is asking people to arrive at least 15 minutes before their scheduled time and to be patient.
WASHINGTON __ President Joe Biden called the U.S. topping of the threshold of 500,000 deaths blamed on the coronavirus a “truly grim, heartbreaking milestone.”
Biden is urging Americans to resist becoming “numb to the sorrow” and “viewing each life as a statistic.” He says the people lost were “extraordinary.”
Biden also touched on the personal tragedy he’s experienced in losing his first wife and baby daughter in a car collision, and later losing an adult son to brain cancer.
Biden tells the nation’s he knows it’s hard but that “to heal, we must remember.”
He spoke before holding a moment of silence in the White House and inviting the public to join.
HOUSTON - Authorities in Houston are opening a giant vaccination center that will serve an estimated 126,000 people over the next three weeks.
The federally funded site will fully open Wednesday at Houston’s NRG Park, near the home stadium of the NFL’s Houston Texans. Staff will distribute first doses seven days a week for three weeks, then transition to second doses.
Harris County Judge Lina Hidalgo, the county’s chief elected official, says authorities will prioritize people who live in areas hardest hit by the coronavirus. Hidalgo and Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner say their staffs have identified ZIP codes where people have been most affected and lack the same access as other places to medical care.
The site opens as Texans recover from a devastating winter storm that killed at least 35 people and left millions without power and water. While Houston and other cities have lifted boil orders on drinking water, many people are still affected by broken pipes and shutoffs of systems.
Says Hidalgo, “It’s been trauma after trauma, and people deserve some good news, some hope.”
WASHINGTON— Drugmaker Johnson & Johnson says it will be able to provide 20 million U.S. doses of its single-shot COVID-19 vaccine by the end of March, assuming it gets the greenlight from federal regulators.
J&J disclosed the figure in written testimony ahead of a Congressional hearing on Tuesday looking at the country’s vaccine supply. White House officials cautioned last week that initial supplies of J&J’s vaccine would be limited.
The company reiterated that it will have capacity to provide 100 million vaccine doses to the U.S. by the end of June. That supply will help government officials reach the goal of having enough injections to vaccinate most adult Americans later this year. On a global scale the company aims to produce 1 billion doses this year.
U.S. health regulators are still reviewing the safety and effectiveness of the shot and a decision to allow its emergency use is expected later this week. J&J’s vaccine would be the first in the U.S. that requires only a single shot.
Currently available vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna require two doses spaced several weeks apart. Executives from both companies and two other vaccine makers will also testify at Tuesday’s hearing.
___
WASHINGTON - The Food and Drug Administration said Monday that it won’t require huge, months-long studies if COVID-19 vaccines eventually need tweaking to better match a mutating virus — small, short studies will suffice.
The vaccines now being rolled out do still protect against different variants of the virus, the FDA stressed. But viruses mutate constantly, and some new versions are starting to raise concerns. So FDA issued new guidelines for vaccines — as well as for virus tests and treatments — on steps that companies can start taking to get ready.
“We’re trying to be prepared in advance,” said Dr. Peter Marks, the FDA’s vaccines chief.
Already major manufacturers have started updating their vaccine recipes if regulators eventually decide that’s necessary.
Marks said the needed tests would include a few hundred people rather than thousands, and could take just two or three months. Volunteers would receive experimental doses of the tweaked vaccine and then have their blood checked to see if it revved up the immune system about as well as the original vaccines do.
Marks said the hope is that if vaccines have to be updated, they would work broadly enough to cover both the original virus and a new mutant version — rather than requiring a combination shot like flu vaccines. Having to make multiple kinds of vaccine and then combine them would put a greater strain on already stretched production capabilities.
___
WASHINGTON - The White House now says it expects to catch up by mid-week on deliveries of coronavirus vaccine doses that were delayed by severe weather.
Officials had said on Friday that they anticipated catching up by the end of this week. Some 6 million doses were delayed by snow and icy conditions.
But White House coronavirus response coordinator Andy Slavitt is attributing the improved timeline to an “all-out, round-the-clock” effort.
Slavitt says pharmaceutical distributor McKesson ran extended shifts over the weekend to pack vaccines with employees volunteering to work in the middle of the night to prepare shipments. UPS also participated.
Slavitt says 7 million doses — a combination of those delayed by weather and the regular distribution — were being delivered Monday as a result of those and other efforts.
___
BISMARCK, N.D. - North Dakota’s Republican-led House endorsed a measure Monday that would prohibit state or local governments from mandating face coverings.
Representatives approved the measure 50-44. The bill also prohibits “making use of a face mask, shield, or covering a condition for entry for education, employment, or services.”
The bill now goes to the Senate.
Bill sponsor GOP Rep. Jeff Hoverson and others argued there was no proof that masks work to slow the spread of the coronavirus and they questioned the government’s role in mandating them.
The state health officer, backed by Gov. Doug Burgum, imposed a mask mandate in November after months of refraining from such an order, hoping to stem a coronavirus surge that had been among the worst in the U.S. and threatened to overwhelm the state’s hospitals.
___
HARTFORD, Conn. - A major change to Connecticut’s vaccination schedule was announced Monday, with the state continuing with a mostly age-based system to make the rollout less complicated after seeing the challenges other states have faced in vaccinating essential workers and people with underlying health conditions.
“The lesson learned here from all these other states is, complexity is the enemy of equity and speed, which makes it the enemy of public health,” Max Reiss, spokesman for Gov. Ned Lamont, told The Associated Press. 
Beginning March 1, anyone aged 55 to 64 will be allowed to get a COVID-19 vaccine. That group will be followed by people 45-54 on March 22; 35-44 years on April 12; and everyone else 34 years and younger on May 3. 
Lamont previously said he would release details this week about which essential workers and people with underlying medical conditions could soon begin signing up for vaccinations. 
Currently, only people ages 65 and older and medical workers are eligible. The previous group eligible for the vaccine included people 75 years and older. 
Lamont said Friday he would release a list on Monday of the particular medical conditions that would make people eligible.
___
OKLAHOMA CITY - Oklahoma opened its second phase of coronavirus vaccinations on Monday, providing inoculations to public school teachers and staff and to adults of any age with illnesses that make them susceptible to the virus.
“Our goal is to make sure that every Oklahoma teacher and staff member who wants the COVID-19 vaccine can get it by spring break” in mid-March, said health commissioner Dr. Lance Frye at a vaccination clinic in Norman.
More than 681,000 Oklahomans had been vaccinated as of Friday, according to the state health department, and an estimated 60,000 more vaccinations were administered during the weekend, said deputy health commissioner Keith Reed.
State schools superintendent Joy Hofmeister said she expects a high percentage of public school staff to accept the vaccine.
“Teachers have been clamoring for the prioritization of having the vaccine,” Hofmeister said.
There have been 419,853 coronavirus cases and 4,203 deaths due to COVID-19 in Oklahoma since the pandemic began, the state health department reported.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/22/the-latest-young-children-return-to-school-in-germ/


#35
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 22.02.2021
Заглавие: Hamas-ruled Gaza launches coronavirus vaccination drive


By FARES AKRAM - Associated Press - Monday, February 22, 2021
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) - The Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip began its coronavirus vaccination drive on Monday following the arrival of the first vaccines to the blockaded coastal area.
Former health ministers and several medical workers were inoculated with Russia’s Sputnik V jabs in front of dozens of cameras. More medical workers and patients with chronic diseases are to start receiving injections on Tuesday.
The inoculation drive “will result in more immunity among the people and further curb the spread of the pandemic,” said Health Ministry spokesman Ashraf al-Qedra.
The area has received just 22,000 doses of vaccines, a tiny fraction of what is needed to immunize the strip’s 2 million people, including some 1.4 million people over age 18.
The shortage of vaccines in both the Gaza Strip and the West Bank stands in stark contrast to Israel, which is on pace to immunize almost all of its adult population in the coming weeks. Already, roughly one-third of Israel’s 9.3 million people have received two doses of the Pfizer/BionTech vaccine. The disparity has drawn attention to the worldwide inequity in vaccine distribution between rich and poor nations.
U.N. officials and human rights groups have voiced concerns over the disparities and said that Israel, as an occupying power, has an obligation to help the Palestinians. Israel says that under interim peace accords, the internationally recognized Palestinian Authority is responsible. Israel has vaccinated its own Arab population.
The Palestinian Authority has struggled to secure vaccines, obtaining just 2,000 doses from Israel for West Bank medical workers and an additional 10,000 doses from Russia. Last week, it transferred 2,000 of the Russian vaccines to Gaza.
On Sunday, a rival of President Mahmoud Abbas organized a shipment of 20,000 Russian vaccines to Gaza from the United Arab Emirates in a move apparently aimed at embarrassing the Palestinian leader ahead of elections in May.
Gaza has been under an Israeli-Egyptian blockade since Hamas seized control of the area in 2007 from Abbas’ forces. Al-Qedra, the Health Ministry spokesman, said he expected more vaccines to arrive in Gaza in the coming days.
Gaza’s health authorities have reported more than 54,000 coronavirus infections and 543 deaths.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/22/hamas-ruled-gaza-launches-coronavirus-vaccination-/


#36
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 22.02.2021
Заглавие: Russia’s Putin hosts Belarusian president for talks in Sochi


By Associated Press - Monday, February 22, 2021
MOSCOW (AP) - Russian President Vladimir Putin hosted his Belarusian counterpart Alexander Lukashenko for talks on Monday, amid media reports suggesting that the leader of Belarus was coming to Russia to secure another loan.
The Kremlin extended both economical and political support to Lukashenko after his disputed re-election in August triggered the largest and the most sustained wave of mass protests in Belarus‘ history. In September, Putin said Moscow would provide a $1.5 billion loan to its ex-Soviet neighbor.
Earlier this month, the Kommersant newspaper cited government sources saying that another loan, this time of over $3 billion, would be discussed during Lukashenko’s visit to Russia. The Belarusian leader denied the reports last week and said he was “not going there to ask for anything.”
The two leaders met in Russia’s Black Sea resort of Sochi. In brief remarks before the start of their talks, they highlighted the close economic and cultural ties between the two countries.
Putin pointed out that Russia remains the biggest trade and economic partner for Belarus. Lukashenko thanked Moscow for its economic support, adding that the funds invested in the Belarusian economy were well spent.
Lukashenko also praised the Russian coronavirus vaccine Spuntik V, the first batch of which arrived to Belarus in December after the ex-Soviet nation became the second country besides Russia to give the shot regulatory approval. He said production of Sputnik V will begin in Belarus in March, and added that Belarus will develop its own coronavirus vaccine by the fall.
Russia and Belarus have a union treaty envisaging close political, economic and military ties, but they have often engaged in acrimonious disputes. Before the Aug. 9 election in Belarus, Lukashenko repeatedly accused the Kremlin of pressing Belarus to abandon its independence.
But with the U.S. and the EU criticizing the Belarus presidential election and imposing sanctions on Belarus, Lukashenko has had to rely squarely on Russia’s support.
Despite frictions in the past, the Kremlin abhorred the prospect of public protests forcing the resignation of the Belarusian leader, fearing it could embolden Putin’s critics at home.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/22/russias-putin-hosts-belarusian-president-for-talks/


#37
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 22.02.2021
Заглавие: Russia’s COVID-19 vaccination drive slowly picking up speed




By DARIA LITVINOVA - Associated Press - Monday, February 22, 2021
IKHALA, Russia (AP) - Maria Piparinen and other elderly residents of Ikhala were relieved when they heard that doctors were finally bringing a few doses of the coronavirus vaccine to their remote, snowy village in the Russian region of Karelia, near the border with Finland.
Otherwise, the 75-year-old said she would have had to hire a car to take her 10 kilometers (6 miles) to the town of Lakhdenpokhya, because the bus no longer runs there.
And besides, “I called the clinic in Lakhdenpokhya, but … they told me (all the slots in) February were booked already,” Piparinen told The Associated Press.
The village of wooden houses - carved out of a dense forest of fir trees about 20 kilometers (12 miles) from the Finnish border and 100 kilometers (60 miles) north of St. Petersburg - is one of several in the Karelia region where Russia’s vaccination campaign has arrived in recent weeks.
More than 18,000 people have gotten their first dose of the Sputnik V vaccine in the region of 600,000 that was hit hard by COVID-19.
At one point in December, Karelia recorded a daily average of 75.7 cases per 100,000 people, the highest rate in Russia as a whole, which had been averaging 18.8 recorded cases per 100,000.
“When you watch TV and see how people are suffering … you don’t want that. You want to live a little longer,” said 74-year-old Galina Shilova, one of Ikhala’s nearly 700 residents. Some of those getting the shots last week at the makeshift clinic had to make their way cautiously along snowy footpaths.
The goal is to vaccinate 290,000 people, or 60% of the region’s adults, by summer, said Karelia Deputy Health Minister Galina Matveyeva.
Russia took pride in being the first country to approve a coronavirus vaccine, although it faced criticism for doing it before completing the advanced testing necessary to ensure Sputnik V’s safety and effectiveness. It began vaccinations in December, another global first, but now lags behind a dozen nations that have been using vaccines developed in the West and China.
Russian authorities don’t regularly release data on vaccination rates, but the number who have gotten at least the first shot appears to be somewhere between 2 million and 3.2 million.
On Feb. 10, Denis Logunov, deputy director of the Gamaleya Center that developed Sputnik V, said 2.2 million Russians, or less than 2%, had received their first dose of the two-shot vaccine and more than 1.7 million had gotten both shots. An analysis of regional media reports by AP found that some 3.2 million had gotten their first shot as of last week.
That compares with over 43 million people in the U.S., or about 13.2%, who have gotten their first shot, and 18.8 million who have gotten both in a campaign that has had its own difficulties.
Russia’s slow rollout has raised questions in the West as more countries have agreed to buy millions of doses of Sputnik V.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund that bankrolled the vaccine’s development and is marketing it abroad didn’t respond to a request for comment on how many doses are going to other countries.
Media reports indicate about 20 countries ordered a total of over 200 million doses, said Elena Subbotina, consultant with Central & Eastern European Team of CBPartners, a global health care strategy consulting firm.
On Friday, an African Union-created task force said Russia has offered 300 million doses of Sputnik V.
“I must say we still wonder why Russia is offering theoretically millions and millions of doses while not sufficiently progressing in vaccinating their own people,” said European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on Feb. 17.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Russia’s vaccination campaign is going at “normal” rates.
The drive has picked up speed but is still rather slow, said Alexander Dragan, an independent data analyst who monitors regional vaccination rates.
“Between the beginning of January and now, the vaccination rate has increased 10 times. During the New Year holidays, some 13,000 people a day were being vaccinated, and over the past nine days, I estimate that shots were being given to 135,000-145,000 people daily,” Dragan said. “In absolute numbers, it looks impressive … but in proportionate numbers, it’s very modest, because one should keep in mind Russia’s population of 146 million.”
Dragan’s estimate suggests the vaccination rate last week was about one-fourth of that in the U.S.
Health Minister Mikhail Murashko has announced plans to vaccinate 60% of the population by the end of June.
Experts and the media point to limited supply, distribution logistics complicated by its having to be stored and transported at minus-18 degrees C (minus-0.4 F), and hesitance among those wary of its rushed approval.
“It’s supply-side or demand-side issues, and my guess is, it’s a little of both,” said Judy Twigg, a professor of political science at Virginia Commonwealth University specializing in global health.
Logunov, of the Gamaleya Center, said 7 million doses have been released for domestic use, another 1 million are expected by the end of February, and 10 million are planned to be produced in March.
The Health Ministry allocates the doses. While Muscovites can get vaccinated on the day they decide to do it, long waits have been reported in other regions.
In Karelia’s capital of Petrozavodsk, patients told AP they waited more than two weeks. Residents of Sortavala, a town about 300 kilometers (185 miles) west of Petrozavodsk, complained on social media in early February about being unable to sign up.
Regulations state that vaccines must be administered by a team including a physician to examine recipients and offer help in case of an adverse reaction - something that can also constrain the drive because of a limited number of available physicians.
Karelia has received 23,392 doses in total, 4,200 of which arrived last week. Matveyeva, the deputy health minister, said the region can store about 30,000 doses at once at minus-18 degrees C, limiting how many vaccines they can receive.
For last week, 250 doses were allocated to the Sortavala district and the neighboring district, an area that is home to 42,000 people, including those in Ikhala. A team led by Dr. Alexander Romanov, Sortavala hospital head, brought 10 doses to Ikhala on Tuesday.
When the outbreak surged in the fall, it didn’t spare Ikhala, where 60 infections were registered.
“November, December, January - it was something,” said Tatyana Tikhonova, the village paramedic.
Hamlets in Karelia, some of which became part of the Soviet Union after it fought a war with Finland in 1939-40, might appear to be cut off from more populated parts of Russia but actually are connected.
“Residents have relatives that work in cities and come to visit their parents, grandmothers and grandfathers on weekends and holidays, bringing the coronavirus with them,” said Dr. Irina Garmina of the Sortavala hospital.
Tikhonova told her patients when the doses were coming to Ikhala - mostly the elderly with conditions putting them at risk for the virus. One declined because she believed she had already had COVID-19 and didn’t want the vaccine without getting tested first.
Romanov acknowledged that “the number of vaccinated people is not high,” but is convinced more doses will arrive soon.
“In the nearest future, when the region gets the sufficient amount of the vaccine, we will continue this work and expand the vaccination geography,” he said.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/22/russias-covid-19-vaccination-drive-slowly-picking-/


#38
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 22.02.2021
Заглавие: Dubai’s Emirates seeks key role in global vaccine delivery


By MALAK HARB - Associated Press - Monday, February 22, 2021
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates (AP) - The belly of the Emirates plane that touched down in Dubai early Sunday from Brussels was stuffed with precious cargo: tens of thousands of doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine.
The arrival was part of an effort by the Middle East’s biggest airline to pivot from shuttling people to shipping cargo - and grabbing a central role in the global vaccine delivery race.
As the coronavirus pandemic continues to clobber the aviation industry, the disaster has hit long-haul carriers like Emirates hardest. So the airline is ferrying around the very substance it hopes will get passengers back into its seats and revive the flagging travel sector.
Over the weekend, workers scurried around the tarmac at the Dubai International Airport, unloading several aluminum containers crammed with vaccine vials and dry ice into a vast florescent-lit cargo terminal. The key transit hub, previously used for the global shipment of pharmaceuticals, is now at the center of a growing vaccine supply network based in the United Arab Emirates. State-owned carrier Emirates already has delivered millions of doses to Latin America, South Africa and Egypt from major manufacturing hubs in India and elsewhere.
With 15,000 square meters (161,458 square feet) of refrigerated storage space, the sprawling facility can help maintain the required temperature controls for two of the leading COVID-19 vaccines that use the new vaccine technology messenger RNA, or mRNA. The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, reported as being 95% effective, must be preserved at the frigid temperature of negative 70 Celsius (minus 94 degrees Fahrenheit).
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
On the one hand, the federation of seven emirates is accelerating efforts to import vaccines despite supply lags. The country, which boasts the world’s second-fastest inoculation drive behind Israel, relies most on a vaccine made by state-backed Chinese firm Sinopharm. It also offers residents a variety of other choices, including Pfizer, Russia’s Sputnik V and most recently AstraZeneca-Oxford University’s jab made in India.
Emirates also is assembling a wide-ranging supply chain across the world, catering particularly to countries in Africa and the Middle East that lack the proper infrastructure to store and transport the shots. Vaccine inequality has become a growing concern as wealthy countries vacuum up the lion’s share of doses, leaving poorer ones even farther behind in combating the public health and economic effects of the pandemic.
Earlier this month, Dubai’s international port operator DP World and Emirates announced the creation of a “vaccine logistics alliance,” which plans to move millions more doses around the world via the company’s vast network of ports and Dubai’s airport, a crucial east-west transit point.
“I think we’re in a key strategic location to be able to deliver these vaccines to the developing countries that really can’t get them,” said Julian Sutch, commercial development manager at the Emirates cargo storage facility. “We know in the first world we’ll be able to get a hold of these vaccines, but it’s critical that everyone does.”
The UAE’s push comes as vaccine diplomacy gains traction around the world, with countries like China doling out doses as part of ambitious political and business efforts.
The oil-rich UAE, seeking to deepen its influence and draw positive headlines abroad, has delivered free Sinopharm shipments to Egypt, a key Arab ally, and the Indian Ocean island nation of the Seychelles. On Sunday, with the help of a Emirati-based rival to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, 20,000 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine landed in the impoverished Gaza Strip from the UAE.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/22/dubais-emirates-seeks-key-role-in-global-vaccine-d/


#39
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 23.02.2021
Заглавие: San Marino finally gets vaccines, but goes with Sputnik V 


By NICOLE WINFIELD - Associated Press - Tuesday, February 23, 2021 
ROME (AP) - The Republic of San Marino finally can start its coronavirus vaccination drive after the first shots arrived Tuesday. But the city-state surrounded by Italy had to resort to its “Plan B” and buy Sputnik V jabs from Russia after plans to get European Union-approved doses from Italy got delayed.
A pink and yellow truck escorted by police cars brought the first 7,500 Sputnik V vaccines into San Marino and delivered them at the main hospital. Officials said the Russia-made doses will eventually be enough to vaccinate some 15% of the microstate’s population of around 33,800.
San Marino bought Sputnik V shots at the last minute after an agreement to have Italy send a proportion of the vaccines it received through the EU’s vaccine procurement system got delayed. San Marino, located near Rimini on the Adriatic coast, isn’t an EU member, and as such was excluded from the deals the 27-nation bloc negotiated with pharmaceutical firms. 
The San Marino secretary of state, Luca Beccari, said during a news conference last weekend that the negotiations with Italy took a long time and that under an agreement signed Jan. 11, San Marino was to receive one dose for every 1,700 that Italy received from the EU. 
But the deal hit a snag as Italy and other EU countries faced delivery delays for the three EU-approved vaccines, the ones from: Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and AstraZeneca. Italy has administered some 3.7 million doses.
 “Unfortunately, the time required to define these procedures and the fact that San Marino is a country that has not yet started its vaccination campaign has forced us to seek alternative solutions,” Beccari said in explaining the Sputnik purchase.
“As for all other countries, it is necessary to start the vaccination campaign as soon as possible in order to ensure the safety of its citizens,” he said. 
The European Medicines Agency has said the developers of Sputnik V recently asked for advice on what data they needed to submit for the vaccine to be licensed across the European Union. Hungarian health authorities have approved both Sputnik V and the vaccine developed by state-owned Chinese company Sinopharm.
San Marino has had a proportionately devastating outbreak, with 3,538 confirmed COVID-19 cases and 73 deaths. 
Roberto Ciavatta, San Marino’s secretary of state for health, said Sputnik V was safe and effective. 
“It is not that it did not pass any controls. On the contrary, as all the research and data available show, it is a vaccine that is already administered in 30 countries, About 70 million people have been vaccinated with it. It has extremely high safety standards,” he said. 
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/23/san-marino-finally-gets-vaccines-but-goes-with-spu/


#40
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 25.02.2021
Заглавие: Bahrain becomes 1st nation to grant J&J shot emergency use


By Associated Press - Thursday, February 25, 2021
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates (AP) - Bahrain became the first nation to authorize Johnson & Johnson’s new single-dose coronavirus vaccine for emergency use on Thursday, the government announced, just a day after U.S. regulators concluded the shot offers strong protection against severe COVID-19.
The island kingdom off the coast of Saudi Arabia said it would dole out J&J’s shot to the most vulnerable people, including older adults and those with chronic conditions, without specifying when. It was also unclear when doses would be delivered to the country, which already offers vaccines by state-backed Chinese firm Sinopharm, Pfizer-BioNtech and Oxford-AstraZeneca, as well as Russia’s Sputnik V to its roughly 2 million residents.
The move makes Bahrain’s health regulatory authority the first in the world to authorize the J&J vaccine for general use. In addition to the U.S., European regulators and the World Health Organization also are considering J&J’s vaccine. Worldwide, the company aims to produce around a billion doses by the end of the year.
Meriam Adhbi al-Jalahma, chief of Bahrain’s regulatory body, said authorities had conducted “an in-depth study” on “all documents submitted by the company, which included the results of the clinical trials.”
The vaccine “provides a great protection against serious infection with COVID-19,” the statement added.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
In an unusual move, South Africa started administering the J&J vaccine to health workers while it was still in testing. The country, where a virus variant is driving a new wave of infections, switched to J&J from AstraZeneca after a small study suggested it was poor at preventing mild to moderate COVID-19 caused by the more contagious variant.
The long-anticipated J&J shot promises to offer the U.S. a third vaccine option and help speed vaccinations by requiring just one dose instead of two. Food and Drug Administration scientists confirmed that overall the vaccine is about 66% effective at preventing moderate to severe COVID-19, and about 85% effective against the most serious illness. The agency also said J&J’s shot is safe.
The tiny state of Bahrain has logged 119,858 coronavirus infections and 437 deaths. It boasts among the world’s fastest vaccination rates, with nearly 17% of the population having received at least one dose.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/feb/25/bahrain-becomes-1st-nation-to-grant-jj-shot-emerge/


#41
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 01.03.2021
Заглавие: Slovakia signs deal to acquire 2 million doses of Sputnik V 


By KAREL JANICEK - Associated Press - Monday, March 1, 2021 
PRAGUE (AP) - Slovakia signed a deal to acquire 2 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine, Prime Minister Igor Matovic said Monday.
Matovic said his country will get 1 million shots in the next two months while another million will arrive in May and June.
Slovakia is the second European Union country to use the vaccine, which hasn’t been approved by the European Medicines Agency, after Hungary. It hasn’t been registered by Slovakia’s drug authority, but the deal was made possible by Health Minister Marek Krajci’s approval.
Matovic said the nation of 5.4 million will be able to speed up the vaccination program by 40%.
Slovakia has so far administered 305,832 shots of Western vaccines that it has received through an EU deal. To speed up what is considered a slow EU delivery, the country started to look for other options.
“Nobody has a recipe other than the necessity to inoculate,” Krajci said.
Slovakia became the country with the most COVID-19 deaths by size of population in the world amid a surge of a fast-spreading British coronavirus variant.
The number of COVID-19 patients in Slovakia’s hospitals reached a new record high of 4,008 on Sunday - a situation that has recently prompted leaders to appeal for outside help. 
The seven-day rolling average of daily deaths didn’t rise or increase over the past two weeks, remaining at 1.79 deaths per 100,000 people since Feb. 14 till Sunday, according to Johns Hopkins University.
The country is planning to tighten its already strict lockdown on Wednesday.
Matovic’s coalition government originally rejected a plan to acquire Sputnik V on Feb 18 after one of his four coalition partners vetoed the move.
Matovic kept the deal secret, announcing it on Monday only after a military cargo plane with the 200,000 doses of the vaccine landed in the eastern Slovak city of Kosice. 
The move will likely cause further tensions in his center-right coalition.
Deputy Prime Minister Veronika Remisova, who heads the For People party that didn’t agree with the plan previously, said any vaccine to be used in her country needs to be registered by the EMA, the EU’s drug regulator.
One member of parliament for her party, Tomas Valasek, immediately announced he was leaving the coalition over the deal.
“Not in my name,” Valasek said about it.
Krajci said the authorities might start to administer the vaccine - possibly in about two weeks.
“I’m glad that the citizens of Slovakia will have this vaccine at their disposal,” he said, adding it will be administered on a voluntary basis.
With Western vaccines rolling out slowly to the EU’s 27 member states, Polish President Andrzej Duda spoke Monday with Chinese President Xi Jinping and asked him about the possibility of Poland buying Chinese-made vaccines. 
Duda aide Krzysztof Szczerski said whether or not Poland ends up buying the Chinese vaccines will be a decision of the Polish government, but that Duda welcomed the Chinese leader’s willingness to make his country’s vaccines “a global public good.” 
So far, Poland, like Slovakia, is only using the Western-made vaccines of Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/1/slovakia-signs-deal-to-acquire-2-million-doses-of-/


#42
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 02.03.2021
Заглавие: Bosnia receives jabs from Serbia amid COVAX dispute


By ELDAR EMRIC - Associated Press - Tuesday, March 2, 2021
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina (AP) - Bosnia on Tuesday received 10,000 vaccines from neighboring Serbia amid a dispute with the international COVAX mechanism over a delay in planned shipments.
The Balkan nation has threatened to sue the program unless the vaccines arrive as agreed. It has asked for 1.2 million vaccines that would cover about one third of its population.
Members of the multi-ethnic Bosnia presidency on Tuesday discussed the delivery problems with World Health Organization director Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.
Bosnia will sign what it described as “additional” documentation requested by vaccine producers, a statement issued after the video conference said. It added that Bosnia has met the conditions for the arrival and storage of the jabs.
Serbia’s populist president, Aleksandar Vucic, flew to Bosnian capital Sarajevo to deliver the AstraZeneca vaccines to the authorities there. The delivery is enough for 5,000 people to receive both required doses.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
Vucic described the move as an act of solidarity and urged closer cooperation among the Balkan countries.
“We have expected vaccines from the EU, we didn’t get them.” Vucic said. “We will thank them when we receive vaccines from the COVAX program.”
Serbia has launched its vaccination program in January, mainly with China’s Sinopharm and to a lesser extent with Pfizer-BioNTech, Russia’s Sputnik V and as of recently AstraZeneca. Displaying a regional sway, Serbia has donated vaccines to neighboring nations that are still waiting for shipments.
“President Vucic made us an offer at the moment when international mechanisms failed and we accepted it,” said Sefik Dzaferovic, the Bosniak member of the multi-ethnic Bosnian presidency.
The Croat representative, Zeljko Komsic added that “if even one of these 5,000 vaccines saves a life, then it’s worth it.”
Relations with Serbia have remained a sensitive issue in Bosnia since the 1992-95 war when Belgrade backed a bid by Bosnia’s Serbs to form its own ministate and unite with Serbia.
The war erupted after the breakup of the former Yugoslav federation. It claimed the lives of more than 100,000 people before ending in a U.S.-brokered deal, which created a Serb and a Bosniak-Croat entity with a joint Bosnian government.
Vucic, a former extreme nationalist who supported the Bosnian Serb war effort during the conflict, said he has proposed a Serbia-Bosnia summit to be held in the coming months in Belgrade to widen economic and other cooperation.
“We can move forward much faster together,” he said. “We are stronger when we speak with one voice.”
Both Bosnia and Serbia have been seeking European Union membership. Serbia and the Bosnian Serbs have also forged close relations with Russia and China.
The Bosnian Serb region has acquired Russian Sputnik V vaccines, and hundreds of medical staff from the Republika Srpska entity have crossed over to Serbia to receive vaccine shots.
The nationalist Bosnian Serb leadership has called for the separation of their entity from Bosnia while issues like border identification or property division are still burdening relations with Belgrade.
“We must start relaxing our relations at some point,” Dzaferovic said. “There has been enough tensions and futile disputes.”
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/2/bosnia-receives-jabs-from-serbia-amid-covax-disput/


#43
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 03.03.2021
Заглавие: Slovakia’s political crisis, triggered by Sputnik V, deepens


By KAREL JANICEK - Associated Press - Wednesday, March 3, 2021
PRAGUE (AP) - The political crisis in Slovakia deepened on Wednesday after a member of the ruling coalition demanded a reconstruction of the Cabinet.
The crisis was triggered by a secret deal to acquire Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine orchestrated by the country’s prime minister despite disagreement among his coalition partners.
Richard Sulik, head of the Freedom and Solidarity party, said the situation in the coalition is so serious that “we can hardly continue this way.”
“It’s evident we haven’t succeeded in the fight against the pandemic,” Sulik said. His party said unspecified changes in the government are needed for the coalition to continue.
Sulik has often clashed with Prime Minister Igor Matovic over how to tackle the pandemic but the current crisis is the most serious problem the coalition has faced.
Matovic has defended the deal to acquire 2 million Sputnik V vaccines, saying it will speed up the vaccination program in one of the European Union’s countries hit hardest by the pandemic.
But it was condemned by Foreign Minister Ivan Korcok, who was nominated to the post by Sulik’s party and who said the vaccine was a tool in Russia’s hybrid war against the West. Korcok said the purchase cast doubts on his country’s clear pro-Western orientation.
Another coalition partner, the For People party, didn’t rule out an option to leave the coalition.
The head of that party, Deputy Prime Minister Veronika Remisova, said any vaccine needs approval from the EU’s drug regulator.
Matovic acknowledged on Wednesday that he acquired the Russian vaccine against the will of his partners but urged them not to use the conflict to destroy their coalition.
“As the prime minister, I think it’s my duty to do the maximum to save the lives and health of people in Slovakia,” he said in a video message.
Remisova met Sulik and other leaders - including another critic of the Sputnik V deal, President Zuzana Caputova - over the crisis Wednesday.
After the meeting, Sulik said his party was “by no means” in favor of early elections.
Parliament speaker Boris Kollar, the leader of the fourth coalition party, We Are Family, called on his partners to put aside their disputes and negotiate a way to move forward. Kollar invited representatives of all the four coalition parties to meet later Wednesday.
Pro-Western Matovic struck a deal last year to govern with the pro-business Freedom and Solidarity party; the conservative For People, a party established by former President Andrej Kiska; and We Are Family, a populist right-wing group that is allied with France’s far-right National Rally party.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/3/slovakias-crisis-triggered-over-over-sputnik-v-dee/


#44
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 04.03.2021 
Заглавие: EU regulator starts a review of Russia’s COVID-19 vaccine


By Maria Cheng and Daria Litvinova - Associated Press - Thursday, March 4, 2021
MOSCOW (AP) — The European Medicines Agency has started a rolling review of Russia‘s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine, many months after it was first approved for use in Russia and after dozens of countries around the world have authorized it.
In a statement Thursday, the European regulator said the review is based on results from lab studies and research in adults, which suggests the vaccine may help protect against the coronavirus.
Despite skepticism about Russia’s hasty introduction of the vaccine, which was rolled out before it had completed late-stage trials, the vaccine appears to be safe and effective. According to a study published last month in the journal Lancet, Sputnik V is 91% effective and appears to prevent inoculated individuals from becoming severely ill with COVID-19, although it’s still unclear if the vaccine can prevent the spread of the disease.
With a global shortage of COVID-19 vaccines, some experts say boosting the use of vaccines made by China and Russia - which have not been as in demand as those made by Western companies - could offer a quicker way to increase the global supply. The pandemic has already infected over 115 million people, killing over 2.5 million of them, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.
The EMA has so far approved three COVID-19 vaccines for use across the 27-nation European Union: shots made by Pfizer-BioNtech, Moderna and AstraZeneca. It could license a fourth shot made by Johnson & Johnson at an expert meeting next Thursday.
The EMA has not set a date for when its expert group might meet to assess Sputnik V data but the rolling review aims to expedite the authorization process, which can typically take months.
Dr. Hans Kluge, the World Health Organization’s regional director for Europe, called the EMA announcement on Sputnik V “good news.”
“We desperately need to enlarge our portfolio of vaccines, so I see this as a very welcome development,” Kluge said.
In the meantime, dozens of countries have already authorized Sputnik V for use - including EU member Hungary - and many have agreed to purchase millions of doses of the shot.
Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund that bankrolled the development of the vaccine, said Thursday that “vaccine partnerships should be above politics and cooperation with EMA is a perfect example, demonstrating that pooling efforts is the only way to end the pandemic.”
“Following EMA approval, we would be able to provide vaccines for 50 million Europeans starting from June,” Dmitriev added.
The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, said Thursday it is not looking to add the Russian vaccine to its portfolio at this stage.
“No talks are ongoing between negotiation teams and the producers, or institutes, or companies or organizations behind the Sputnik vaccine,” said Stefan De Keersmaecker, the Commission’s health policy spokesman.
The RDIF has been pushing for the EMA to review Sputnik V for months, with Dmitriev first announcing an application to the European regulator in November. In January, the EMA met with the developers of the vaccine.
Although there was considerable scientific skepticism when Russia unrolled its vaccine without completing advanced trials, many doubts have since been assuaged with the publication of it latest research. Experts said Russia’s initial immunization campaign was marred by “unseemly haste, corner cutting and an absence of transparency.”
Sputnik V uses a modified version of the common cold-causing adenovirus to carry genes for the spike protein into the coronavirus to prime the body to react if COVID-19 comes along. That’s a similar technology to the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University.
But unlike AstraZeneca’s two-dose vaccine, Sputnik V uses a slightly different adenovirus for the second booster shot, a factor that some scientists say may account for its apparently high efficacy rate.
The World Health Organization is also considering whether or not to issue an emergency use approval for Sputnik V; officials last month were awaiting further details from its Russian developers. That approval would be essential for any Sputnik V vaccines to be used in the U.N.-backed COVAX program to try to distribute vaccines fairly to nations around the world, but COVAX has not yet signed any deals for Sputnik V.
Questions have been raised in the West over Russia‘s eagerness to export its vaccine amid its comparatively slow domestic vaccine rollout - officials say nearly 4 million people, less than 3% of Russia‘s population of 146 million, have received the shots so far.
“I must say we still wonder why Russia is offering theoretically millions and millions of doses while not sufficiently progressing in vaccinating their own people,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov retorted that Russia’s vaccination campaign is going at “normal” rates, adding that the international demand for Sputnik V is “so high that it significantly exceeds (Russia‘s) production capacity.”
The RDIF says it has received requests for 2.4 billion doses of the two-shot vaccine, enough to immunize 1.2 billion people, from over 50 countries. According to Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin, Russia has so far produced just over 10 million doses.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/4/eu-regulator-starts-a-review-of-russias-covid-19-v/


#45
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 04.03.2021
Заглавие: China uses global COVID-19 vaccine exports to one-up U.S.


By Guy Taylor - The Washington Times - Thursday, March 4, 2021
The Biden administration says it is committed to strategically countering China on the global stage, but Beijing has already seized the public relations high ground in the soft-power fight to win friends and influence through strategically placed COVID-19 vaccine deliveries to countries in need.
Amid storied complaining that the world’s wealthier nations are hoarding precious stocks, China has grabbed the international spotlight by pledging roughly half a billion vaccine doses to more than 45 countries, with Russia and India also competing in the scramble to ship doses around the world.
The competition is hitting close to home. Across the southern U.S. border, Mexico has accepted shipments of Chinese and Russian vaccines to help fight the pandemic.
Doubts over the efficacy of Chinese-made Sinovac and Sinopharm vaccines are swirling among some scientists, who argue that the Biden administration is wise to avoid shipping U.S.-made vaccines anywhere before the U.S. stockpiles enough doses for its own residents. But others say the administration is asleep at the switch while Beijing exploits the pandemic to score a Cold War-style propaganda victory over the West.
“We are clearly losing on messaging and optics at the moment,” said Dr. Krishna Udayakumar, founding director of the Duke Global Health Innovation Center at Duke University. “Right now, if you’re Peru or Mexico, where are you getting vaccines from? It’s not the U.S.; it’s from China or Russia.”
“I think countries are going to have long memories of who helped them in a time of crisis,” he said. For all the rhetoric about “reasserting U.S. engagement” around the world, the Biden administration is “losing a moment of opportunity to reassert U.S. leadership in the global arena” through vaccine distribution.
The Associated Press reported this week that Chinese vaccines have been shipped to more than 25 countries, with shots delivered to another 11, while only a small clutch of wealthy nations has managed to get the pricier, U.S.-produced Pfizer and Moderna shots.
With just four of China’s many vaccine makers able to produce at least 2.6 billion doses this year, the news agency reported, a large part of the world’s population will end up inoculated not with the fancy Western vaccines boasting headline-grabbing efficacy rates, but with China’s less-celebrated shots.
India, which is manufacturing two vaccines, started donating doses to a number of neighboring countries in January, while Russia has given doses of its Sputnik V vaccine to more than a dozen nations. Sputnik V has been registered or approved for emergency use in more than 40 countries around the world, and Russian ambassadors in countries such as Iran and Bolivia have made it a point to publicize heavily when the Sputnik V vaccine arrives for the locals.
Chinese officials publicly deny that they are waging a vaccine diplomacy race. They describe the vaccine as a “global public good.” Chinese experts also have rejected ties between vaccine distribution and any attempt by China’s communist regime to burnish its global image after facing widespread criticism for its handling of the first outbreaks of the virus in Wuhan, China, in late 2019.
But some can’t resist comparing what they say has been China’s generosity with American stinginess.
“By the end of February, China has provided vaccine assistance to 69 countries and two international organizations,” Wang Wenwen, an editor with the state-controlled Global Times, wrote Thursday. “It has also exported its vaccine to 28 countries.
“Meanwhile,” he added, “the U.S. is living in its self-built wall of unilateralism and the lingering ‘America First’ mentality.”
Focused on home
Biden administration officials have brushed aside questions about China’s COVID-19 diplomacy push, stressing that their focus at the moment is on vaccinating Americans.
When asked this week whether the administration is considering sharing part of the U.S. vaccine supply with Mexico, White House spokesperson Jen Psaki responded with a flat “no.”
Once the U.S. population is taken care of, she said, “we’re happy to discuss further steps.”
Secretary of State Antony Blinken also sidestepped questions about whether the White House fears it is ceding its leadership to China, even as the administration frames Beijing as the chief threat to the United States.
“I think as the months go on and as we vaccinate our own people and make sure that every American is protected, we’ll also be engaged in helping the world get vaccinated,” Mr. Blinken told PBS’s “Newshour.” “Because at the end of the day, we will not be fully secure until the world is vaccinated, not just Americans.”
He said the U.S. is “contributing billions of dollars to creating greater access to vaccines.”
Indeed, the Biden administration went to lengths in mid-February to highlight the decision to commit some $4 billion to COVAX, the international effort orchestrated by the World Health Organization to bolster the purchase and distribution of COVID-19 vaccines to poorer nations.
Officials framed the commitment as a stark contrast with the Trump administration, which spurned both the WHO and the multinational COVAX effort. But even the $4 billion now authorized by Mr. Biden has strings attached.
The president told a virtual Group of Seven summit last month that Washington will deliver half upfront, with the rest contingent on other G-7 nations making good on their own pledges.
The U.S. record on supporting global vaccine efforts has drawn mixed reactions from experts.
“I believe in a modest form of vaccine nationalism,” said Arthur Caplan, a professor of medical ethics at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. The Biden administration, he said, was wise to vaccinate key segments of the U.S. population such as health care workers first, even when there may be a diplomatic advantage to sharing doses with other nations in need.
“You’ve got to take care of the neediest folks in your own country first,” he said. “If you’re not in control of what’s going on in your own country, it’s hard to help others. … Think of it as the airplane mask rule: Put your own mask on before you help others.”
Mr. Caplan said much of what China, Russia and India have done to date amounts to “tokenism” because the total number of doses being shared isn’t enough to dramatically dent global COVID-19 rates.
“I don’t think the Chinese are giving enough to make a huge difference, and we don’t even know that their vaccines work that well,” he said. “I’m not overly worried that we’re getting outmaneuvered or somehow asleep at the international security switch.”
He added, “I think these are minor chess moves that are not going to have a long-term impact on foreign policy, because it’s too little in the way of help and it’s too obvious in terms of trying to curry favor. The bigger questions of help will be here soon, in say four or five months, when we have a lot of vaccines around and you could really do some serious distribution.”
A push to prepare
But others say the U.S. should be doing more now.
“As Americans get vaccinated, we need to do more to vaccinate others,” said Patrick Cronin, the Asia-Pacific security chair at the Hudson Institute in Washington.
While Mr. Cronin told The Times that “President Biden’s commitment of $4 billion to the global vaccine fund is a demonstration of U.S. leadership,” he stressed that “even more should be done” and suggested a “bolder” move may be for the United States to “lift the patent on vaccine formulas.”
Others say the patent issue is sticky because few nations have the scientific expertise to quickly reproduce vaccines on their own.
In the interim, there are signs that the Biden administration is exploring a joint plan for distributing vaccines in Asia with allies Japan, India and Australia — member nations of the “Quad,” an informal alliance that U.S. officials have increasingly sought to promote as a counter to China.
Biden administration Indo-Pacific policy coordinator Kurt Campbell has spearheaded the effort, according to the Financial Times, which reported this week that Mr. Campbell has held several meetings with ambassadors from the Quad.
The White House has declined to comment on details of the behind-the-scenes effort, although a spokesperson told The Times on Thursday that “expanding global vaccination, manufacturing and delivery” are “issues the United States is regularly discussing with allies and partners like Australia, India and Japan.”
Duke’s Dr. Udayakumar, meanwhile, said reliance on “existing platforms like the Quad would make sense as part of overall strategy but doesn’t address needs and vaccine diplomacy efforts in Africa and Latin America.”
“It also leaves open the question of the role of COVAX relative to bilateral and other multilateral efforts,” he said, adding that the U.S. should be engaging in public diplomacy tied to an initiative for sharing vaccine doses in the near future.
“We will pretty confidently have vaccines in excess of our needs by July, so we need to start planning now for what we’re going to do with excess,” Dr. Udayakumar told The Times.
He added that the Biden administration may be holding back a more aggressive policy for delivering vaccines internationally because pushing such a policy at the current moment could complicate difficulties the administration is already having in getting Congress to pass a domestic COVID-19 relief bill.
But, Dr. Udayakumar said, “even if we were just talking about making doses available in June or July, that would be a lot better than the current story, which is that the U.S. is hoarding doses while India, China and Russia are sharing them.”
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/4/china-use-global-covid-19-vaccine-exports-one-us/


#46
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 09.03.2021
Заглавие: Russia to make Sputnik V vaccine in Italy, a first in EU 


By COLLEEN BARRY and DARIA LITVINOVA - Associated Press - Tuesday, March 9, 2021 
MILAN (AP) - Russia has signed a deal to produce its Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine in Italy, the first contract in the European Union, the Italian Russian Chamber of Commerce announced Tuesday. 
The deal was signed with Adienne Srl, the Italian subsidiary of a Swiss-based pharmaceutical company, and Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund. Production of a planned 10 million doses this year is set to launch in July. 
“The innovative production process will help create new jobs and allow Italy to control the entire production of the compound,’’ the chamber said in a statement. Financial terms were not released. 
Sputnik V has not yet been approved for use in the EU, but the body’s regulator, the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, started a rolling review of the vaccine last week. 
Russian authorities are working on 20 similar collaborations in Europe and the Sputnik V vaccine has been registered in 45 nations worldwide, the chamber said. 
The EU has been criticized for its slow vaccine rollout and some EU nations have decided not to wait for the EMA’s approval. Hungary became the first EU country to authorize Sputnik V for use last month while Slovakia announced a deal last week to acquire 2 million Sputnik V doses and received the first shipment of 200,000 doses. 
France’s government has had regular exchanges about Sputnik V, but the country now doesn’t have a production site available that would meet the necessary requests so no contract has been signed so far to produce the vaccine in France, according to a French Industry Ministry official. 
The official reiterated France’s position that the government isn’t choosing vaccines because of their country of origin, but based on whether they are effective and safe and approved by the EMA.
Russian President Vladimir Putin began a dialogue about the Sputnik V vaccine with French President Emmanuel Macron in autumn, and Paris sent a delegation of experts to Russia to conduct talks about the vaccine and advise how to handle discussions with the World Health Organization and the EMA, according to a French official who spoke on customary condition of anonymity.
Despite skepticism about Russia’s hasty introduction of the vaccine, which was rolled out before it had completed late-stage trials, the vaccine appears to be safe and effective. According to a study published in the Lancet, Sputnik V is 91% effective and appears to prevent inoculated individuals from becoming severely ill with COVID-19, although it’s still unclear if the vaccine can prevent the spread of the disease.
With a global shortage of COVID-19 vaccines, some experts say boosting the use of vaccines made by China and Russia could offer a quicker way to increase the global supply. Others note that Russia’s push to export its vaccine around the world may be driven by political interests. 
An EMA official has warned European nations against issuing national emergency clearance of Sputnik V. 
Christa Wirthumer-Hoche, the chair of the EMA’s management board and the head of the Austrian Medicines and Medical Devices Agency, said on Austrian television that EU members approving Russian and Chinese vaccines via emergency national procedures is “partly comparable with Russian roulette,” citing the need to first examine data on the quality, safety and effectiveness of the shots. 
“Citizens have a right to get really safe and effective medicinal products,” Wirthumer-Hoche added. “We can have Sputnik V on the market here in the future if we have examined the corresponding data.” 
Wirthumer-Hoche’s remarks elicited outrage in Russia. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Tuesday called them “inappropriate,” and developers of the vaccine demanded a public apology from the official, saying that her comments “raise serious questions about possible political interference in the ongoing EMA review.”
“EMA did not allow such statements about any other vaccine. Such comments are inappropriate and undermine credibility of EMA and its review process. Vaccines and EMA should be above and beyond politics,” Sputnik V’s official Twitter account said Tuesday. 
An EMA spokesperson told The Associated Press in written comments that the agency “will assess Sputnik V’s compliance with the usual EU standards and any recommendation will be based on the strength of the scientific evidence on the vaccine’s safety, quality and efficacy, and nothing else.” 
The EU commission does not now have plans for the collective purchase of Sputnik doses, relying instead on deals already made with other vaccine manufacturers. But it has made clear that member states are entitled to reach separate agreements as long as they don’t compete with the commission’s advance purchases of 2 billion vaccine doses. 
Italy’s health minister, Roberto Speranza, has indicated he is open to introducing the Russia-developed vaccine in Italy, as long as it has regulatory approval. Italy’s new premier, Mario Draghi, has pledged to accelerate the vaccination campaign to dampen the spread of new variants that have again put Italy’s health system under pressure. So far, just 2.85% of Italy’s population has been fully vaccinated.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund that bankrolled the vaccine and markets it abroad has said the production of Sputnik V will span several countries, including India, South Korea, Brazil, China, Turkey, as well as Belarus and Kazakhstan and possibly Iran. 
Kazakhstan manufactured 90,000 doses of the vaccine last month but there are few indications any large amounts of the vaccine have been produced outside of Russia so far.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/9/russia-to-make-sputnik-v-vaccine-in-italy-a-1st-in/


#47
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 10.03.2021
Заглавие: CEO: Italy-made Sputnik V aimed for EU market, if approved


By COLLEEN BARRY - Associated Press - Wednesday, March 10, 2021
MILAN (AP) - The head of a Swiss pharmaceutical company said Wednesday that hopes behind a deal with Russia to produce the Sputnik V vaccine in Italy are to sell it to EU countries, if regulators approve the jab.
“That is not the goal, it is a wish,’’ Adienne founder and president Antonio Francesco Di Naro told The Associated Press on Wednesday.
The first agreement to make the Sputnik V in any EU country was signed Tuesday by Swiss-based Adienne Pharma & Biotech and the Russian Direct Investment Fund. Production is slated for Adienne’s plant near Milan, but Di Naro said the announcement that Adienne would produce 10 million doses this year, launching in July, was incorrect.
Adienne is in the process of acquiring the Russian technology, and will then start producing batches of vaccine that must be vetted by the Italian Medicines Agency before approval is granted for commercial production.
“This procedure requires months, or even more, because this is a biological product,” Di Naro said. “I cannot say when we will begin the production for the commercial batch.”
Eventual production levels will depend on market needs once production begins.
Adienne would need additional authorization from the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, before it can sell or distribute the vaccine throughout the EU. But the company could sell the vaccine it produced to non-EU countries as long as it obtains Italian regulatory approval, Di Naro said.
The EMA started a rolling review of the vaccine last week.
Di Naro said Adienne is being commissioned to produce the vaccine, but that it would be up to its Russian partners to negotiate eventual sales deals.
The Italian-Russian Chamber of commerce had put Adienne in touch with the Russian Direct Investment Fund for the vaccine’s production. investment fund.
Di Naro said Adienne has the necessary expertise needed to get the highest yield out of production, and that he doesn’t anticipate any problems scaling up production.
“We need to try to solve this problem of the very, very short availability of this kind of product on the market,” he said.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/10/ceo-italy-made-sputnik-v-aimed-for-eu-market-if-ap/


#48
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 12.03.2021
Заглавие: Hungary emerges as an EU vaccination star amid surging cases


By JUSTIN SPIKE - Associated Press - Friday, March 12, 2021
BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) - Hungary has emerged as a European Union leader in COVID-19 vaccinations thanks to a strategy that sought shots from Russia and China as well as from inside the bloc, spurring increasing trust in jabs from eastern nations.
But that strategy is up against a skyrocketing rise in new COVID-19 cases and deaths blamed on a more infectious virus variant first found in Britain that is putting an unprecedented strain on Hungary’s health care system. A new round of lockdown measures took effect Monday to curb the surge, which saw deaths averaging around 150 per day and hospitalizations and new cases breaking records set during the previous peak in December.
As of Friday, 11.9% of Hungary’s adult population had received at least one dose of a vaccine. That is the second-highest rate of vaccination in the 27-member EU after the small island nation of Malta and substantially above the EU average of 7%. With five vaccines approved for use in Hungary, more than in any other EU nation, more than 1.2 million Hungarians have received a jab in the country of fewer than 10 million, according to Johns Hopkins University.
The vaccination campaign is only growing in importance, for Hungary has the 7th worst death rate per 1 million inhabitants in the world, at 16,627 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins.
Dr. Karoly Dery, a general practitioner in Hatvan, a town 35 miles east of Budapest, said the rapid spread of the virus has led to increased acceptance of all vaccines.
Gallup: Support for Democrats plunged, GOP surged as Biden struggled with virus, Afghanistan
“I always tell anti-vaccination people that any vaccine is better than a month on a ventilator and possible death,” Dr. Dery told The Associated Press. “There’s nothing uglier or more awful than death by suffocation.”
Right-wing populist Prime Minister Viktor Orban broke with the EU’s common procurement program to purchase millions of doses from Russia and China that were not approved by the EU’s medicines regulator. He has been harshly critical of the speed of the EU’s vaccine rollout.
In February, the country became the first in the EU to begin using China’s Sinopharm and Russia’s Sputnik V vaccines, even as polling showed that public trust in non-EU approved vaccines was low. A January survey of 1,000 people in the capital of Budapest by pollster Median and the 21 Research Center showed that among those willing to be vaccinated, only 27% would take a Chinese vaccine and 43% a Russian vaccine, compared to 84% who would take a jab developed in Western countries.
Dr. Bela Merkely, the rector of Semmelweis Medical University in Budapest, told the AP that Hungary’s exceptional performance in vaccinations can be attributed to its purchase of the Russian and Chinese vaccines. He said the initial public distrust is being overtaken by a sense of urgency to bring a devastating third surge of the pandemic under control.
“Hungary has more vaccines because it gave emergency approval to the Sputnik and Sinopharm vaccines,” he said, adding that he had received a Sputnik V jab. “(When) people ask which is the best, I always say, ‘The best vaccine is the one that’s in my arm.’ A vaccine that is in transit or is sitting in the refrigerator … cannot protect a single human life.”
Other EU countries are taking notice. Slovakia’s prime minister, Igor Matovic, angered members of his governing coalition when he made a secret deal to purchase 2 million doses of Sputnik V this month, while the president of the hard-hit Czech Republic has written to the leaders of Russia and China requesting emergency doses.
Merkely expects Hungary’s new lockdown restrictions and increasing vaccination rate to produce results within three to four weeks and the latest surge to be under control by mid-May. Still, he says, Hungarians won’t be safe until all countries in the world have access to vaccines.
“A global pandemic cannot be managed locally,” he said. “As long as COVID-19 is still present in the world, then not even vaccinated countries will be safe because a mutation can form at any time.”
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/12/hungary-emerges-as-an-eu-vaccination-star-amid-sur/


#49
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 17.03.2021
Заглавие: Palestinians get 60,000 vaccine doses through WHO
program


By JOSEPH KRAUSS - Associated Press - Wednesday, March 17, 2021
JERUSALEM (AP) - The Palestinian Authority said Wednesday it will receive just over 60,000 coronavirus vaccine
doses over the next 48 hours, the first shipment provided by a World Health Organization partnership aimed at
helping poor countries.
That’s only enough doses to vaccinate 31,000 people out of a population of nearly 5 million Palestinians in the
Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza. Israel, which has faced criticism for not sharing more of its supplies with the
Palestinians, has already vaccinated 5 million people - more than half of its population - and has largely reopened its
economy.
Palestinian Health Ministry spokesman Kamal al-Shakhra said authorities would receive 38,000 doses of the Pfizer
vaccine and 24,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine. The AstraZeneca vaccines will be kept in storage until the
WHO reviews recent safety concerns.
An Israeli security official confirmed the shipment, which arrived in Israel‘s Ben Gurion International Airport, and
said about a third of the vaccines would be sent to Gaza later on Wednesday. The official spoke on condition of
anonymity in line with regulations.
These are the first doses to arrive through the WHO’s COVAX initiative, a global humanitarian partnership that has
been slow to get off the ground, facing shortages of cash and supplies as rich countries have galloped ahead with
their vaccination campaigns.


Bill de Blasio announces he won&#39;t run for governor of New York
Those global inequities have been on vivid display in Israel, which boasts one of the world’s fastest vaccination
campaigns, and the Palestinian territories, which have yet to receive enough vaccines to cover medical workers, let
alone the elderly or those with chronic illness.
Until now, the PA had received 2,000 doses from Israel and acquired another 10,000 doses of the Russian-made
Sputnik V vaccine. Authorities in the Gaza Strip, which is ruled by the Islamic militant group Hamas, have received
60,000 doses in shipments organized by Mohammed Dahlan, a political rival of Palestinian President Mahmoud
Abbas who is based in the United Arab Emirates.
The PA has been criticized for using some of its limited supply to vaccinate senior officials and their security
details, as well as the Palestinian soccer team. The Health Ministry defended its policies, saying more than 90% of
its doses were given to front-line medics.
The Palestinian health minister, Dr. Mai al-Kayleh, said a wider vaccination campaign would begin on Sunday. She
said the vaccination of medical personnel would be completed, and vaccinations of people over 75 years of age,
kidney patients and cancer patients would begin.
Rights groups have said that Israel, as an occupying power, is responsible for vaccinating the Palestinians. Israel
rejects those claims and says its own citizens are the priority. Under interim peace agreements, the PA is responsible
for health care in the territories it administers but both sides are supposed to cooperate in combatting epidemics.
The PA says it is securing its own supplies through COVAX and agreements with drug makers.
Israel recently began vaccinating the estimated 100,000 Palestinians from the West Bank who work in Israel and
Jewish settlements. Israel captured the West Bank in the 1967 war, and the Palestinians want it to form the main part
of their future state.
Health experts have warned that failing to vaccinate the Palestinians could endanger Israel‘s own efforts to combat
the pandemic, as the two populations live in close proximity.


https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/17/palestinians-get-60000-vaccine-doses-through-who-p/




#50
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 22.03.2021
Заглавие: Putin to get coronavirus vaccine shot in Russia on Tuesday


By DARIA LITVINOVA - Associated Press - Monday, March 22, 2021
MOSCOW (AP) - President Vladimir Putin said he will get a coronavirus vaccine shot on Tuesday, several months after widespread vaccination started in Russia.
Kremlin opponents have criticized Putin for not getting vaccinated amid a comparatively slow rollout of the shot in Russia, arguing that his reluctance is contributing to the already extensive hesitance about the vaccine. Russia, where only 4.3% of the 146-million population have received at least one dose, lags behind a number of countries in terms of the vaccination rate.
Surveys by Russia’s top independent pollster Levada Center have shown that a number of Russians reluctant to get vaccinated with Sputnik V has grown in recent months - to 62% in February from 58% in December. The Kremlin has said it doesn’t see a connection between Putin not getting vaccinated and public trust in the Russian COVID-19 vaccine.
Putin, 68, told a meeting with government officials and vaccine developers on Monday that he will get his shot “tomorrow,” without specifying which coronavirus vaccine out of the three authorized for use in Russia he will take.
Russian authorities have given regulatory approval to three domestically developed shots. Sputnik V has been approved last August with much fanfare at home and criticism abroad, because at the time it had only been tested on a few dozen people.
But a recent study published in British medical journal The Lancet showed the Sputnik V is 91% effective and appears to prevent inoculated individuals from becoming severely ill with COVID-19, although it’s still unclear if the vaccine can prevent the spread of the disease.
Two other Russian vaccines, EpiVacCorona and CoviVac, have also received regulatory approval before completing late-stage trials experts say are necessary to ensure their safety and effectiveness in line with established scientific protocol. EpiVacCorona is still undergoing these trials, while CoviVac was to begin them in March. No data on efficacy of these two vaccines have been released.
Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov also wouldn’t say which one of the three Putin will take on Tuesday, saying only that “all of them are good and reliable.”
According to the Russian president, 6.3 million people in Russia have already received at least one shot, and more than 4.3 million have had two doses.
Putin said that 60% of Russian adults need to be vaccinated in order to achieve herd immunity, which requires a total of 69.8 million vaccines. As of March 17, around 8.9 million two-dose sets of Sputnik V have been released into circulation in Russia, as well as over 115,000 two-dose sets of EpiVacCorona, the Russian leader said.
“Today we can confidently say … that the Russian vaccines are absolutely reliable and safe,” Putin said. “It is an absolute success of our scientists and specialists.”
Putin and his spokesman have been repeatedly asked why the president hasn’t been vaccinated so far. In December, the Russian leader said Sputnik V wasn’t being recommended to people of a certain age, adding that “vaccines have not yet reached people like me.”
At the time, the shot was only being offered to people ages 18 to 60, but in less then two weeks after Putin’s remarks Russian health authorities cleared the vaccine for those older than 60.
Last month, Russia’s Kommersant newspaper reported that Putin said he might get vaccinated at the end of the summer or beginning of the fall. The newspaper quoted Putin telling Russian media managers at a closed-door meeting that he didn’t want to do it for publicity’s sake in front of cameras and that he had other vaccinations scheduled already.
Peskov said Monday he didn’t “expect” Putin’s vaccination on Tuesday “to be a public event.”
Russia has been actively marketing Sputnik V abroad, despite the slow rollout at home, in what some analysts see as an effort to score geopolitical points. Dozens of countries have approved the use of Sputnik V and signed deals with Russia to get shipments of the shot. Exporting the vaccines, however, has not been without delays, and questions remained whether Moscow had the capacity to deliver on its promises.
In order to boost production, the Russian Direct Investment Fund that bankrolled the vaccine signed agreements with pharmaceutical companies in several countries, including India, South Korea, Brazil, Turkey and most recently Italy. Putin said on Monday such agreements amounted to a total of 700 million vaccines a year.
“The geography of using the Russian Sputnik V is actively growing. Even despite deliberate discrediting of our vaccine, various hoaxes and sometimes outright nonsense, more states all around the world express interest in our vaccine,” Putin said.
The Russian president took aim at officials in the European Union, some of whom have expressed reluctance about using Sputnik V even though the bloc has been criticized for a slow vaccine rollout.
On Sunday, Internal Market Commissioner Thierry Breton, who heads the European Commission’s vaccine task force, told French television that the EU “has absolutely no need” for Sputnik V.
Putin called the statement “bizarre” and insisted that Russia was “not imposing anything on anyone,” questioning whether European officials protect the interests “some pharmaceutical companies or the interests of citizens of European countries.”
Sputnik V hasn’t yet been approved for use in the EU, but the body’s regulator, the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, started a rolling review of the vaccine earlier this month.
Some EU nations have decided not to wait for the EMA’s approval, and Hungary became the first EU country to authorize Sputnik V for use last month while Slovakia announced a deal last week to acquire 2 million Sputnik V doses in a move that prompted a political crisis in the country.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/22/putin-to-get-coronavirus-vaccine-shot-in-russia-on/


#51
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 22.03.2021
Заглавие: Hungary approves 2 more vaccines from outside EU amid spike


By JUSTIN SPIKE - Associated Press - Monday, March 22, 2021
BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) - Hungary has issued initial approval to two more COVID-19 vaccines from outside the European Union’s common procurement program, officials said Monday, further expanding the national supply of jabs that has given the country one of the highest vaccination rates in the 27-member bloc.
The Hungarian medicines regulator gave emergency approval to Convidecia, a vaccine produced by Chinese company CanSino Biologics, and to India’s Covishield vaccine, Chief Medical Officer Cecilia Muller announced at an online press briefing. The actions brings the number of vaccines authorized in Hungary to seven; shots developed by Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Oxford-AstraZeneca and China’s Sinopharm, as well as Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, are already in use.
“We are confident that with this increase in the range (of vaccines), we can also increase their quantity and provide the population with the opportunity to vaccinate as widely as possible,” Muller said.
Convidecia - the second Chinese-produced vaccine approved in Hungary after the Sinopharm vaccine in February - is a single-dose viral vector jab currently approved for use in China, Pakistan and Mexico. Covishield, the Indian version of the British-Swedish AstraZeneca vaccine, is produced by the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer.
Hungary has the second-highest vaccination rate in the EU with some 16% of the population having received at least one dose compared to the bloc’s average of around 9%. The country was the first in the EU to begin using vaccines from Russia and China, and the Hungarian government has criticized the bloc’s vaccine rollout.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
Muller did not provide details on when or how many doses of the CanSino Biologics and Covishield would arrive in Hungary.
The approval of the jabs came days after a legal change that loosened rules on approval of medicines and vaccines.
Hungarian authorities hope that widespread vaccination will help pull the country out of a recent surge in infections that has shattered records set during its worst periods of the pandemic late last year.
Hungary now has the sixth-worst cumulative death rate per 1 million inhabitants in the world, overtaking the United Kingdom over the weekend, according to Johns Hopkins University. In the last week, Hungary had the fastest-growing per capita death rate in the world.
As of Monday, 18,451 people had died of COVID-19-related causes in the country of fewer than 10 million.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/22/hungary-approves-2-more-vaccines-from-outside-eu-a/


#52
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 23.03.2021
Заглавие: Slovak president asks premier to resign as way out of crisis


By Associated Press - Tuesday, March 23, 2021
BRATISLAVA, Slovakia (AP) - Slovakia’s president has asked Prime Minister Igor Matovic to step down and clear the way for a Cabinet reshuffle to defuse a political crisis triggered by a secret deal to buy Russia’s coronavirus vaccine.
Zuzana Caputova spoke on Tuesday after she accepted the resignation of the fourth minister of Matovic’s four-party coalition to step down amid the crisis.
Caputova said “it’s inevitable for the prime minister to resign and make it possible for the coalition partners to strike a deal to reconstruct the government.”
The crisis erupted when a secret deal came to light three weeks ago involving Slovakia’s agreement to acquire 2 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V COVID-19 vaccine. The populist prime minister orchestrated the deal despite disagreement among his coalition partners.
Matovic has defended the Sputnik V purchase, saying it would speed up the vaccination program in one of the hardest-hit European Union countries.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
But two parties in his coalition government, the Freedom and Solidarity and For People, which had clashed repeatedly with Matovic’ Ordinary People party over how to tackle the pandemic demanded his resignation as a condition for the coalition to survive. They threatened that otherwise they would leave the government.
Matovic said he was ready to do that, if his major rival, Freedom and Solidarity leader Richard Sulik, and also Justice Minister Maria Kolíkova from the For People party also resign - which they have done.
Freedom and Solidarity rejected some of Matovic’s other conditions for a deal to preserve the coalition, including a request for Sulik’s party to give up one of the three ministries it holds.
Matovic didn’t immediately react to the president’s request but his party said the talks over the crisis with all coalition partners will continue.
Matovic’s group struck a deal a year ago to govern with the pro-business Freedom and Solidarity party, the conservative For People, and We Are Family, a populist right-wing group that was allied with France’s far-right National Rally party.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/23/slovak-president-asks-premier-to-resign-as-way-out/


#53
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 23.03.2021
Заглавие: Putin gets jab of COVID-19 vaccine — out of the public eye


By DARIA LITVINOVA - Associated Press - Tuesday, March 23, 2021
MOSCOW (AP) - Russian President Vladimir Putin was vaccinated against COVID-19 Tuesday out of sight of the cameras, his spokesman said, prompting questions about whether the gesture will boost comparatively low immunization rates in Russia.
Dmitry Peskov said Putin is feeling fine after getting the shot and is planning a regular workday Wednesday.
He explained earlier Tuesday that the president would get the vaccine out of the public eye because “when it comes to getting vaccinated on camera, he has never supported that, he doesn’t like that.”
Peskov wouldn’t reveal whether Putin would go to a vaccination facility or the shot would be brought to him in his office or residence, saying only that “it will done in a way that would the least affect” Putin’s working schedule.
Putin announced that he would get vaccinated at a government meeting the day before. The statement came several months after widespread immunization against COVID-19 kicked off in Russia. Kremlin critics have argued that Putin’s reluctance to get vaccinated was contributing to the already existing public hesitancy about the vaccine.
Only 6.3 million people, or 4.3% of Russia’s 146-million population, have received at least one dose of a vaccine. It lags behind a number of other countries in terms of the vaccination rate. Surveys by Russia’s top independent pollster, Levada Center, have shown that the number of Russians reluctant to get vaccinated with the domestically developed Sputnik V shot has grown in recent months - to 62% in February from 58% in December.
Pressed by reporters over whether Putin should get vaccinated on camera in order to boost slow vaccination rates, Peskov argued that Russians “will hear” about the president’s vaccination and that Putin is already doing “a lot” for promoting the vaccination campaign.
“The president … dedicates a rather significant time in his working hours to events, discussions, meetings related to vaccination, production of vaccines and so on. So the president does a lot for propaganda of the vaccines,” Peskov said.
The Kremlin spokesman refused to reveal which of the three vaccines authorized for use in Russia Putin will receive, saying only that all three are “absolutely good, reliable, effective.”
Russian authorities have given regulatory approval to three domestically developed shots - Sputnik V, EpiVacCorona and CoviVac. All three received the authorization before completing advanced trials experts say are necessary to ensure their safety and effectiveness in line with established scientific protocol.
However, a recent study in the British medical journal the Lancet showed that Sputnik V is 91% effective and appears to prevent inoculated individuals from becoming severely ill with COVID-19, although it’s still unclear whether the vaccine can prevent the spread of the disease. No data on efficacy of the two other vaccines have been released.
Russia has been actively marketing Sputnik V abroad, despite the slow rollout at home and limited production capacities. Dozens of countries have approved the use of Sputnik V, and many signed deals with the Russian Direct Investment Fund that bankrolled the vaccine to get shipments of the shot.
The fund said Tuesday it has submitted a request for Sputnik V to be part of the global vaccine sharing scheme COVAX. The shot first needs to be endorsed by the World Health Organization, which is still in the process of reviewing data provided by Russia.
Exporting the vaccines has not been without delays and some questioned whether Moscow had the capacity to deliver on its promises. In Russia, state media and government officials boasted about the international success of the shot that came despite initial criticism of Sputnik V’s hasty introduction.
Peskov said Tuesday that Sputnik V was “so sought-after” that Russia’s production “can’t cope with the demand from abroad.”
To boost production, the Russian Direct Investment Fund has signed agreements with manufacturers in a number of countries including India, Brazil, South Korea and most recently Italy. Putin said on Monday such agreements amounted to a total of 700 million vaccines a year.


https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/23/putins-covid-19-vaccination-to-be-kept-out-of-publ/


#54
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 24.03.2021 
Заглавие: Mystery remains about Sputnik vaccines seized in Mexico


By Associated Press - Wednesday, March 24, 2021
MEXICO CITY (AP) - Mexican prosecutors said Wednesday they remain unsure about whether the supposed Russian coronavirus vaccines seized in Mexico last week are real or fake.
The Attorney General’s Office said the Mexican government’s medical safety commission still hasn’t said what was in 1,155 vials found in false bottoms of ice chests aboard a private plane bound for Honduras.
Initially, the Russian vaccine’s distributor said they were not real Sputnik V vaccines.
But later the head of Mexico’s customs service said they appeared to be real, and now prosecutors say they don’t know.
The vials containing more than 5,700 doses were found inside two coolers packed with ice and sodas during an inspection at the airport in the Gulf coast state of Campeche.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
A Honduran company, Grupo Karim’s, said in a statement that the vaccine was not intended to be sold in Honduras, but rather to be given free to its employees and their families. The company said its employees had been hit hard by the pandemic and it was looking for a way to help them.
The Attorney General’s Office said the seven Honduran crew members and passengers had left a hotel in Campeche and had not been detained, and they can’t be charged until it is known what was in the vials.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund said in a statement Thursday that after reviewing photographs of the packaging, they determined the vaccine to be fake.
Grupo Karim’s did not offer any details about the vaccine’s purchase or its authenticity. The company has 20,000 direct employees.
Horacio Duarte, the head of Mexico’s customs service, said the doses were not among the lot that has been purchased and administered by the Mexican government.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/24/mystery-remains-about-sputnik-vaccines-seized-in-m/


#55
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 26.03.2021
Заглавие: Lebanon private sector steps in to speed up vaccine campaign 


By BASSEM MROUE - Associated Press - Friday, March 26, 2021 
BEIRUT (AP) - Lebanon’s private sector is stepping in to speed up the vaccination campaign against the coronavirus by importing at least 1 million doses of Russian vaccines, with the aim of reopening businesses struggling through an unprecedented economic crisis. 
The first batch of 50,000 doses of Sputnik V vaccines arrived early Friday, making Lebanon one of few nations where the COVID-19 vaccine rollout is being boosted by the private sector. 
Lebanon, a small nation of 6 million people, including around 1 million Syrian refugees, began its inoculation campaign in mid-February after finalizing a deal for some 2 million doses with Pfizer. 
According to the Lebanese Health Ministry, the country has so far received 224,640 Pfizer-BioNTech doses over the past six weeks with around 175,000 doses already administered. Lebanon’s government also began receiving AstraZeneca vaccines this week, with 33,600 doses that arrived on Wednesday.
The Pfizer vaccines are funded by the World Bank while AstraZeneca vaccines will be provided under the U.N.-backed COVAX program. 
Lebanon is currently in the grip of the worst economic and financial crisis in its modern history, exacerbated by lockdown measures related to the pandemic. Tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs and the local currency has lost 90% of its value against the dollar. That’s led to inflation and shortages of food products and medicines. 
According to the World Bank, more than half the population is now living under the poverty line. 
Jacques Sarraf, a Lebanese businessman and head of the Lebanese Russian Business Council, said he hopes the Russian vaccines help safely reopen businesses around the country.
“Our first target will be private companies, factories, banks - and this is important to reactivate institutions,” he told The Associated Press in an interview.
Sarraf, who played a major role in bringing the Sputnik V vaccines to Lebanon, said priority will be given for employees at companies and business institutions, including those of Lebanon’s national carrier Middle East Airlines and the Banking Association. With the private sector moving in, the numbers of people inoculated daily will multiply by more than three times compared with the current pace, he predicted. 
Sarraf said the Sputnik V will be sold at a price of $38 for the required two doses, in addition to hospital fees. The minimum monthly salary in Lebanon is currently 675,000 Lebanese pounds, the equivalent of about $60.
Sarraf said Lebanon will be receiving between 100,000-200,000 doses every three weeks until the goal of 1 million doses is reached. 
Some businessmen and politicians have already expressed readiness to pay for people in their electoral districts to get vaccinated. 
Assem Araji who heads the parliament health committee, said so far only around 950,000 people in Lebanon have registered to take the vaccines, or about 20 percent of the population. 
“The vibrant private sector in Lebanon will make a difference,” he told the AP. “This will speed up the inoculation process and will reduce pressure on the public sector.”
He said Lebanon needs about 10 million vaccines and most of them have been secured, adding that the numbers will start increasing over the coming weeks with the arrival of Sputnik V and AstraZeneca vaccines. 
The international aid organization Doctors Without Borders said Friday it started vaccinating elderly people and medical personnel in nursing homes as part of an agreement with the Health Ministry. It said that since its vaccination began last Friday, some 1,050 people have been inoculated by the group’s mobile teams.
Lebanon has so far recorded nearly 455,381 infections since the first coronavirus case was recorded in February last year, with 6,013 deaths.
Lebanese authorities decided on Friday to implement a three-day nationwide shutdown during the Easter holiday in early April as well as Eid al-Fitr that marks the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, in mid-May.
The decision to shut down the country comes after a sharp increase in cases following Christmas and New Year’s, when some 80,000 expatriates came to Lebanon to celebrate the holiday season.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/26/lebanon-receives-russian-vaccines-imported-by-priv/


#56
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 27.03.2021
Заглавие: Foreigners flock to Serbia to get coronavirus vaccine shots


By Associated Press - Saturday, March 27, 2021
BELGRADE, Serbia (AP) - Thousands of vaccine-seekers from countries neighboring Serbia flocked to Belgrade on Saturday after Serbian authorities offered foreigners free coronavirus jabs if they showed up over the weekend.
Long lines of Bosnians, Montenegrins and Macedonians - often entire families - formed in front of the main vaccination center in the Serbian capital as police kept watch.
“We don’t have vaccines. I came here to get vaccinated,” said Zivko Trajkovski, who is from North Macedonia. “We are very grateful because we can vaccinate quicker than in Macedonia.”
Zoran Dedic of Bosnia noted that his country and Serbia were part of a joint federation before Yugoslavia disintegrated in a war during the 1990s. “It does not make any difference, Bosnia or Serbia. It does not matter,” he said.
Most of Serbia’s Balkan neighbors have been struggling with shortages and have barely started mass vaccination drives, while Serbia boasts of having ample supplies and one of Europe’s highest per capita vaccination rates.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
The Serbian government has donated vaccine doses to North Macedonia, Montenegro and Bosnia.
Critics of populist Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic contend he is trying to spread his influence in the Balkans and to polish the ultranationalist image he acquired during Yugoslavia’s bloody breakup.
Others say that the AstraZeneca vaccine shots Serbia is giving foreigners are nearing their expiration date and need to be used as soon as possible, a claim that could not be verified.
Bosnia’s Klix news portal described huge lines of cars forming at border crossings with Serbia on Saturday morning..
Klix reported that Bosnian businessmen were scheduled to receive jabs Saturday after Serbia’s Chamber of Commerce offered 10,000 shots to their colleagues in the region.
Serbia has one of the highest inoculation rates in Europe, mainly thanks to the government’s large purchases of the Sinopharm vaccine from China and the Russian Sputnik V vaccine. The country also is using the vaccines developed by Pfizer-BioNTech and Oxford-AstraZeneca.
Although over 2 million people in the country of 7 million have so far received at least one shot, Serbia has seen a notable decline in number of residents signing up. Officials and doctors link the drop-off in interest to an increasingly vocal anti-vaccine movement.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/27/foreigners-flock-to-serbia-for-coronavirus-jabs/


#57
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 28.03.2021
Заглавие: Albania starts mass COVID vaccinations before tourist season


By LLAZAR SEMINI - Associated Press - Sunday, March 28, 2021
TIRANA, Albania (AP) - Albania started a mass inoculation campaign Sunday ahead of the summer tourism season after acquiring 192,000 doses of Chinese coronavirus vaccine Sinovac earlier this week.
Hundreds of people age 70 and above gathered at Tirana’s main Skanderbeg Square to get a jab in two big tents.
Liri Bizhiti, 76, one of those waiting in line, was happy to receive the vaccine after a year of isolation, and on the same day as her husband.
“Thank God it came,” she told The Associated Press while accompanied by her daughter. “We are so happy.”
Vaccination has proceeded slowly in the Balkan country since mid-January before the arrival of the Sinovac vaccine, with Albania receiving less than 100,000 Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Sputnik V doses. The country has inoculated 65,000 medical personnel, people age 80 and over, and schoolteachers so far.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
Albania, which has a population of 2.8 million, has signed contracts for a total of about 2.5 million vaccine doses from Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Sputnik V and Sinovac. The government is continuing to work on securing new vaccine contracts so the entire population can be fully vaccinated by early 2022.
Earlier this week, Prime Minister Edi Rama went to Turkey and brought back the 192,000 Sinovac doses. The remainder of the 500,000 Sinovac doses Albania is due to receive will come in two months.
Rama also said Sinovac would build a factory in Albania to produce different vaccines.
Albania aims to give at least 10,000 shots a day and to complete 500,000 jabs by June, Health Minister Ogerta Manastirliu said.
“This process will not stop and our ambitious plan of vaccination aims that in 14 months we complete it (for the entire population) and achieve immunization,” the minister said.
The government aims to make the country ready to welcome tourists this summer. In the years before the virus outbreak, tourism became a significant industry in the country’s economy.
“I believe that this tourist season will be more relaxed as a result of the attacks against the chain of infections,” Rama told journalists after touring the vaccination center at the square.
Foreign tourists coming to Albania won’t be required to show proof that they’ve been inoculated with a coronavirus vaccine.
Albania has registered more than 123,000 coronavirus cases and 2,204 confirmed deaths as of Saturday, according to health authorities.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/28/albania-starts-mass-covid-vaccinations-before-tour/


#58
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 28.03.2021
Заглавие: Slovak premier resigns to end crisis over Russian vaccine


By KAREL JANICEK - Associated Press - Sunday, March 28, 2021
PRAGUE (AP) - Slovakia’s prime minister said Sunday he will step down to clear the way for a Cabinet reshuffle that will defuse a political crisis triggered by a secret deal to buy Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine.
Prime Minister Igor Matovic said he proposed swapping posts with Finance Minister Eduard Heger from his Ordinary People party and Heger said “I accept the challenge.”
Heger said he would immediately open talks with coalition partners on a possible new government and was planning to meet President Zuzana Caputova on Monday for consultations.
The political crisis erupted when a secret deal came to light three weeks ago involving Slovakia’s agreement to acquire 2 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine. Slovakia is part of the 27-nation European Union, which has not authorized the Russian vaccine yet.
Two parties in Matovic’s coalition government, Freedom and Solidarity and For People, which have clashed repeatedly with his Ordinary People party over how to tackle the pandemic, demanded his resignation as a condition for the coalition to survive.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
Matovic has defended the Sputnik V purchase, saying it would speed up the vaccination program in one of the EU’s hardest-hit countries. Slovakia has seen about 9,500 virus deaths in the pandemic.
Matovic agreed to resign if his major rival, Freedom and Solidarity leader Richard Sulik, and Justice Minister Maria Kolíkova from the For People party also resigned, which they did. Amid the crisis, six ministers from all four parties in the coalition have resigned.
But Freedom and Solidarity rejected some of Matovic’s other conditions, including a request for Sulik’s party to give up one of its three ministries. Matovic said Sunday he dropped any other conditions “in order for the coalition to continue.”
Two coalition parties - the For People conservatives and the right wing populists We Are Family - immediately said they accepted the prime minister’s plan as a way out of the crisis. The pro-business Freedom and Solidarity party, which withdrew from the coalition until Matovic resigned, said it was ready to return to the government.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/28/slovak-premier-resigns-to-end-crisis-over-russian-/


#59
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 29.03.2021
Заглавие: Hungary first in European Union for vaccinations, and deaths


By JUSTIN SPIKE - Associated Press - Monday, March 29, 2021
BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) - Hungary has vaccinated more of its population than any other country in the European Union, according to figures from an EU agency, but it continues to be one of the world’s worst in the number of COVID-19 deaths per capita.
The Central European country has given at least a first dose of a vaccine to 21.6% of its population, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, just ahead of the small island nation of Malta and surpassing the 27-member bloc’s average of 12.3%.
But Hungary’s high vaccination rate, a product of a procurement strategy that secured doses from China and Russia in addition to those provided by the EU, has been unable to slow a surge in the pandemic that has given it the highest two-week mortality rate per capita in the world, according to Johns Hopkins University.
Viktor Orban, Hungary’s prime minister, has been critical of the speed of the EU’s vaccine rollout, and pushed for his country to break with the bloc and secure vaccine contracts with eastern countries. Hungary was the first in the EU to approve China’s Sinopharm and Russia’s Sputnik V vaccines, boosting supplies and making it an EU leader in the number of distributed doses per capita.
“We’re in a very good position, right at the head of the queue, and both the Russians and the Chinese are delivering in a timely manner,” Orban said in a radio interview on Friday.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
Last week, Hungary issued emergency approval to two more vaccines - Convidecia, a jab produced by Chinese company CanSino Biologics, and Covishield, a version of the AstraZeneca vaccine produced in India - bringing the total number of approved jabs to seven, the most in the EU.
But while officials have emphasized that only rapid vaccine deployment can bring an end to the pandemic - Orban said on Friday that “vaccination is our primary, our only means of defense against the virus” - Hungary’s good standing has been unable to alleviate a third wave that has led to record-breaking new cases and deaths.
As of Monday, more than 20,000 people had died of coronavirus-related causes in the country of fewer than 10 million inhabitants, giving it the third-worst death rate per capita in the world.
While other countries in the region have imposed tough lockdown measures to bring their own surges under control, Hungary on the weekend published plans to loosen pandemic restrictions in coming days despite the spiking numbers, an effort to restart the economy in a country which saw a 5.1% drop in GDP last year.
“I have no doubt whatsoever that in Hungary we’ll have a summer of freedom,” Orban said Friday.
According to the plans published Saturday in the government’s official gazette, nonessential shops will be allowed to reopen with capacity limitations, and an overnight curfew in place since November will be shortened by two hours. The new measures will take effect once 2.5 million people have received a first dose of a vaccine, a government minister announced, which is likely to occur some time next week.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/29/hungary-first-in-european-union-for-vaccinations-a/


#60
Источник: Washington Times
Дата:  30.03.2021
Заглавие: Leaders of Russia, France, Germany discuss global crises


By VLADIMIR ISACHENKOV - Associated Press - Tuesday, March 30, 2021
MOSCOW (AP) - The leaders of Russia, France and Germany met by conference call Tuesday and discussed coronavirus vaccines, the Iranian nuclear standoff and the conflicts in eastern Ukraine, Libya and Syria.
The Kremlin said President Vladimir Putin also responded to questions about jailed Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny raised by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron in their “frank and business-like” video call.
In its readout of the call, the Kremlin noted that the three leaders talked about prospects for the registration of the Russia-designed Sputnik V vaccines in the European Union and the possibility of its shipments and joint production in EU nations.
The European Medicines Agency started a rolling review of Sputnik V earlier this month. Russia has been actively marketing Sputnik V abroad despite a slow pace of its rollout at home, in what some in the EU saw as an attempt to score geopolitical points.
The offices of Merkel and Macron said in their readouts of the call that the three leaders discussed opportunities for cooperation in the vaccine sector in view of the EMA’s evaluation of Sputnik V, which is carried out according to the same standards that apply to other vaccines.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
While talking about the situation in eastern Ukraine, the three leaders emphasized that a 2015 peace deal brokered by France and Germany has no alternative, the Kremlin said.
It noted that Putin emphasized the need for Ukraine to honor its obligations to provide special status to the rebel regions as stipulated in the 2015 deal. Ukraine has pushed for amending the agreement, but Russia has staunchly rejected the push.
The fighting between Russia-backed separatists and government forces in eastern Ukraine erupted after Russia‘s 2014 annexation of Ukraine’s Crimea and has left more than 14,000 dead.
In its readout of the call, Macron’s office emphasized the need for Russia to act resolutely to secure a cease-fire in the east that has been routinely violated.
The Kremlin’s statement said the three leaders voiced hope that Libya’s transitional authorities will help advance an inclusive political process in the war-stricken country.
All three also reiterated support for the Iranian nuclear deal and touched on the disastrous humanitarian situation in Syria, according to their respective statements.
In an exchange on Belarus, which has been engulfed by protests ever since the August re-election of the ex-Soviet nation’s authoritarian president that the opposition rejected as fraudulent, Merkel and Macron spoke in favor of an inclusive national dialogue, according to their offices. In a statement reflecting Moscow’s staunch support for the Belarusian leader, the Kremlin said that Putin warned against foreign meddling in the country’s affairs.
Putin also said Russia was open for normalization of ties between Russia and the European Union, which have been strained recently over the poisoning and the jailing of Navalny. Navalny, Putin’s most outspoken opponent, was arrested in January upon his return from Germany, where he spent five months recovering from a nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin. Russian authorities have rejected the accusation.
Last month, Navalny was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison for violating the terms of his probation while convalescing in Germany. He rejected the charges as the Kremlin’s political vendetta. Navalny said in a letter from prison that he was suffering from back and leg pains and complained about prison officials’ failure to provide proper medical assistance.
Russian officials have rejected demands from the United States and the European Union to free Navalny and stop the crackdown on his supporters.
In Tuesday’s call, Merkel and Macron emphasized the need for Russia to respect Navalny’s rights in compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights and protect his health, according to Macron’s office.
The Kremlin said only that Putin offered an “objective explanation” in response to questions about Navalny posed by Merkel and Macron and emphasized Moscow’s readiness to “restore normal unpoliticized interaction with the EU if it shows interest in that.”
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/mar/30/leaders-of-russia-france-germany-discuss-global-cr/


#61
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 01.04.2021
Заглавие: New Slovak govt sworn in to end crisis over Russian vaccine


By Associated Press - Thursday, April 1, 2021
BRATISLAVA, Slovakia (AP) - Slovakia’s president on Thursday swore in a new coalition government to end a political crisis triggered by a secret deal to buy Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine.
President Zuzana Caputova appointed the new Cabinet led by Prime Minister Eduard Heger two days after the previous government of Igor Matovic resigned.
It was the first European government to collapse due to its handling of the pandemic but the move kept the same four-party coalition in power and avoided the possibility of an early election.
The crisis erupted when a secret deal came to light a month ago involving Slovakia’s agreement to acquire 2 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V COVID-19 vaccine. The populist prime minister orchestrated the deal despite disagreement among his coalition partners.
Two of them, Freedom and Solidarity and For People, demanded his resignation in order for the coalition - which holds a comfortable parliamentary majority - to survive.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
The crisis paralyzed the government in one of the hardest-hit European Union countries. The nation of 5.4 million has registered 9,790 deaths.
Heger, who is a close ally of Matovic and deputy head of his Ordinary People party, served as the finance minister and deputy prime minister in the previous government. Matovic is assuming those posts in the new government.
“We’ve learned a lot and we’ve learned from our mistakes,” Heger said.
Beside that swap, the government has a new health minister and no immediate labor and social affairs minister who is expected to be appointed later. The rest remains the same.
After winning the parliamentary election on an anti-corruption ticket, Matovic struck a deal a year ago to govern with the pro-business Freedom and Solidarity party; the conservative For People, a party established by former President Andrej Kiska; and We Are Family, a populist right-wing group that is allied with France’s far-right National Rally party.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/apr/1/new-slovak-govt-sworn-in-to-end-crisis-over-russia/


#62
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 01.04.2021
Заглавие: Serbia cracks down on anti-vaccination activists


By Associated Press - Thursday, April 1, 2021
BELGRADE, Serbia (AP) - Serbian police brought in a well-known Serbian doctor and other vocal anti-vaccination activists for questioning Thursday, saying they are jeopardizing the Balkan country’s successful coronavirus inoculation drive.
Serbian state TV said psychiatrist Jovana Stojkovic, a leading figure in the country’s anti-vaccination movement, was taken to a police station in Belgrade on accusations that she has been spreading “fear and panic” with her social media posts and public appearances.
Stojkovic, who leads a small far-right party, has frequently voiced anti-vaccination conspiracy theories.
At least five other people, including a former Serbian women’s basketball player, were reportedly questioned by police on Thursday in an apparent crackdown against Serbia’s growing anti-vaccination movement.
Serbian Justice Minister Maja Popovic said the Interior Ministry and state prosecutors were acting according to the law.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
“All the perpetrators of criminal acts must be processed, especially when they threaten public health,” the statement said.
Dozens of supporters greeted Stojkovic as she was released by police in the afternoon, carrying a banner reading “Stop the COVID fascism.”
Stojkovic said she was arraigned because she shared articles about the vaccines, adding that her added comments were “based on scientific research and what doctors are saying.”
Serbia has one of the highest inoculation rates in Europe, mainly thanks to the government’s large purchases of China’s Sinopharm and Russia’s Sputnik V vaccines. The Balkan nation is also using the vaccines developed by Pfizer-BioNTech and Oxford-AstraZeneca.
Although over 2 million of Serbia’s 7 million people have so far received at least one vaccine shot, Serbia has seen a notable decline recently in the residents signing up for jabs. Officials and doctors link the drop-off to an increasingly vocal anti-vaccine movement.
Thousands of vaccine-seekers from countries neighboring Serbia last month flocked to Belgrade after authorities offered foreigners free jabs for all those who showed up. They all received AstraZeneca jabs that faced expiration because of the lack of interest for that vaccine among Serbs.
Serbia has seen over 5,300 deaths in the pandemic.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/apr/1/serbia-cracks-down-on-anti-vaccination-activists/


#63
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 03.04.2021
Заглавие: Kenya stops the private importation of COVID-19 vaccines


By TOM ODULA - Associated Press - Saturday, April 3, 2021
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) - Kenya has ordered an immediate suspension to the private importation of coronavirus vaccines, citing fears that otherwise counterfeit inoculations may get into the East African country.
“To ensure the transparency and accountability in the vaccination process, and to protect the integrity of the country, the government is effective today closing the window of private sector importation, distribution and administration of vaccines, until such a time there is greater transparency and accountability in the entire process,” Kenya’s National Emergency Response Committee on coronavirus said in a statement Friday evening.
Private health facilities have been charging about $80 apiece for Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, while Kenyan institutions are giving out free AstraZeneca vaccines the government received from the global COVAX initiative.
In recent weeks, government has been working to improve the reluctant uptake by frontline workers of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. So far around 160,000 people have been vaccinated in more than a month.
After announcing new restrictions on movement due to a surge of coronavirus infections and deaths, President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 26 led his cabinet in getting vaccinated publicly.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
Kenya’s government says the country’s positivity rate jumped from 2.6% at the end of January to 19.1% on April 2.
Separately, the British government says beginning on April 9 it will ban most travelers from Kenya, since a significant amount of them are testing positive for variant first found in South Africa. Only U.K. citizens and those holding residency permits will be allowed to enter Britain from Kenya, it said.
The British High Commission stressed that these are temporary measures.
Kenya responded Saturday by making it mandatory for all passengers originating from or transiting through U.K. airports to undergo 14 days of quarantine at a government facility at their own cost. Exemptions were given to cargo flights.
“This unilateral decision (by the U.K) does not reflect prevailing logic and scientific knowledge of the disease or the spread of the pandemic. Rather the decision seems to be motivated by a discriminatory policy against certain countries and peoples,” Kenya’s Foreign Affairs Ministry said.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/apr/3/kenya-stops-private-importation-of-covid-19-vaccin/


#64
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 05.04.2021
Заглавие: Putin calls Argentine leader with COVID despite Sputnik shot


By Associated Press - Monday, April 5, 2021
MOSCOW (AP) - President Vladimir Putin on Monday called his Argentine counterpart, who has tested positive for COVID-19 despite receiving a Russian vaccine.
The Kremlin said in its readout of the call that Argentine President Alberto Fernández told Putin that he only had minor symptoms thanks to receiving the Sputnik V vaccine. Fernández thanked Russia for offering assistance in fighting the coronavirus and expressed interest in getting additional supplies of the Russian vaccine, according to the Kremlin statement.
Putin congratulated Fernández, who turned 62 on Friday, on his birthday and wished him a quick recovery.
In a tweet Saturday, Fernández said he had a headache and was experiencing a fever of 37.3 Celsius (99.1 Fahrenheit). He said he otherwise has slight symptoms, is isolating and is “physically well.”
The Argentine president received a dose of Sputnik V on Jan. 21 and a second dose a few days later.
The Russian Gamaleya Institute, which produced the vaccine, tweeted that it wished the president a quick recovery, and said the vaccine has a 91.6% rate of effectiveness against infection and 100% against critical cases.
More than 650,000 people in Argentina have received both scheduled shots of the vaccine and only about 1,000 of those have been found to be infected more than 14 days after the final dose, according to national health statistics.
None of the vaccines used against the new coronavirus completely eliminate infections, though they have been shown to sharply reduce the rate of infection and its severity.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/apr/5/putin-calls-argentine-leader-with-covid-despite-sp/


#65
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 06.04.2021
Заглавие: Serbia’s leader chooses Chinese-made vaccine for own shot


By DUSAN STOJANOVIC - Associated Press - Tuesday, April 6, 2021
BELGRADE, Serbia (AP) - Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic finally rolled up his sleeve for a coronavirus vaccine Tuesday, seeking to encourage his country’s increasingly skeptical citizens to get the shots themselves.
A live TV broadcast showed Vucic, 51, taking a jab of the Chinese-developed Sinopharm vaccine in the remote eastern village of Rudna Glava. He elected to get the Sinopharm vaccine as some experts have suggested that a third shot of the Chinese vaccine may be required because two doses don’t appear to produce enough protection.
“I received the vaccine, and I feel great,” Vucic said on his Instagram page. “Thank you our great health workers. Thank you our Chinese brothers.”
The populist Serbian president, who rarely wears a protective mask during his frequent public appearances, had promised for months to get vaccinated but found different reasons to postpone the event.
The delay prompted speculation on social media that Vucic was afraid of injection needles, that he did not trust the vaccines or that he had been vaccinated secretly months ago.
Hong Kong to kill 2,000 small animals after hamsters get COVID-19
The president’s critics said his apparent reluctance helped boost an increasingly strong anti-vaccination movement in Serbia, a traditionally conservative country.
Serbia has one of the highest COVID-19 inoculation rates in Europe, mainly thanks to the government’s large purchases of the Sinopharm vaccine. The Balkan nation also is using the Russian Sputnik V vaccine and those developed by Pfizer-BioNTech and Oxford-AstraZeneca.
Some 1.5 million of Serbia’s 7 million people have received at least one vaccine dose so far, but the country has seen a recent decline in residents signing up for shots.
Vucic has taken most of the credit for the successful vaccination campaign, which he linked to his “friendly” relations with Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Serbian leader has said Putin personally helped Serbia get emergency supplies of Sputnik V.
Although Serbia is formally seeking European Union membership, Vucic has pushed the country closer to China and Russia.
Serbia was the first European country to approve and start using both the Sinopharm and Sputnik V vaccines. EU drug regulators have not yet authorized the use of those vaccines.
Thousands of vaccine-seekers from neighboring countries flocked to Belgrade last month after authorities offered free jabs to all foreigners who showed up. The visitors all received doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine that were at risk of going to waste once they expired due to few Serbs choosing to use the British-Swedish drug maker’s product.
Serbia has reported about 5,500 virus-related deaths in the pandemic, and daily confirmed cases and deaths remain high despite the vaccination campaign.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/apr/6/serbias-leader-chooses-chinese-made-vaccine-for-ow/


#66
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 09.04.2021
Заглавие: Hungary to assist Slovakia in inspection of Russian vaccine


By JUSTIN SPIKE - Associated Press - Friday, April 9, 2021
BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) - Slovakia’s deputy prime minister traveled to Hungary to ask for assistance in inspecting doses of the Russian-made COVID-19 vaccine, a day after Russia demanded Slovakia return the jabs.
Deputy Prime Minister Igor Matovic said he went to Budapest “to find a helping hand” and that he had requested for the doses of the Sputnik V vaccine received by Slovakia to be evaluated in Hungarian laboratories.
“I came here to ask for help, and Hungary will help because they have laboratories which can assess the vaccine. In Slovakia, we don’t have such a lab,” Matovic said at a news conference.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which markets Sputnik V abroad, asked Slovakia on Thursday to return its supply of Sputnik V, arguing the Central European country had committed “multiple contract violations” and engaged in an “act of sabotage” against the vaccine.
Slovakia’s State Institute for Drug Control said earlier Thursday that it had not received enough information about the Russian jab from its producer to be able to assess its benefits and risks. The regulator also said the doses it received from Russia differed from those under review by the European Union’s medicines authority.
RDIF called the findings “fake news” and said Slovakia’s drug regulator had tested the vaccine in a laboratory which is not part of the EU’s official network of approved labs.
Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Friday that his country’s laboratories, which are part of the network, would examine Slovakia’s Sputnik V doses at Matovic’s request.
“We are happy to comply with this request, as we have the capacity, the internationally accredited laboratory capacity and the knowledge to do so,” Szijjarto said.
Sputnik V, which was shown to be 91% effective in studies, has not yet been approved for use in the EU. The European Medicines Agency started a rolling review of the vaccine last month
Matovic was Slovakia’s prime minister until his government collapsed last month after he orchestrated a secret deal to buy 2 million Sputnik V vaccines despite disagreements from his coalition partners. He now serves as the country’s finance minister and deputy prime minister.
“Many people in Slovakia will surely say, thank God, we have such a good neighbor as Hungary,” Matovic said Friday.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/apr/9/hungary-to-assist-slovakia-in-inspection-of-russia/


#67
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 12.04.2021
Заглавие: Sputnik vaccine helping Russia regain LatAm foothold


By DAVID BILLER and CHRISTOPHER SHERMAN - Associated Press - Monday, April 12, 2021
RIO DE JANEIRO (AP) - Russia has been trying to get its coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V into Brazilian arms for months, and been repeatedly frustrated by legal, regulatory and possibly even diplomatic obstacles.
That began to change as the South American nation played catch-up in the global race to snap up shots. Receiving little help from the U.S., which was struggling to get a handle on its own outbreak, Sputnik V seemed as good as any; Brazil’s federal government and a group of nine northeastern states signed two deals with Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, RDIF, for a total 47 million doses. The shot is moving toward regulatory approval.
The vaccine has now been purchased by at least nine Latin American nations, with Brazil its greatest uphill battle.
That growing adoption reflects Russia gaining a greater foothold in the region the U.S. has traditionally viewed as within its sphere of influence - and where the American government had boasted of steering Brazil away from Russian vaccines. It’s similar to China’s success in achieving wide use of its own vaccines in Latin America.
That has caused consternation in U.S. diplomatic circles, although it remains to be seen if Russia’s vaccine outreach will yield deeper partnerships.
Tom Shannon, a former undersecretary of state whose long diplomatic career included several stints in the region, told The Associated Press the U.S. has largely missed an opportunity to engage with Latin American governments during the pandemic, with the exception of a recently announced plan by President Joe Biden’s administration to provide Mexico surplus shots
“For the Kremlin, COVID was a godsend,” Shannon said of Russia’s vaccine outreach. “This was a chance for them to restart their diplomacy in the hemisphere with a whole new face of public health intervention and they are taking full advantage of it.”
“When you have 300,000 dead, you take the help where you can get it from,” he said of Brazil.
Russia’s presence in Latin America has been limited since the 1990s, and in recent years primarily entailed an alliance with Venezuela for provision of arms and energy projects, as well as Nicaragua for arms and building emergency response capabilities. But Latin America’s arms purchases plunged as its commodities boom ended and Venezuela economy melted down.
Russian ties were also strong with the government of Argentina’s Cristina Fernandez Kirchner from 2007 to 2015 and appear to be reviving. As current vice president, Kirchner spearheaded negotiations to buy Sputnik V even when local scientists initially were skeptical of the early experimental data reported by the Gamaleya Institute that developed the vaccine.
Argentina’s embrace of the vaccine helped convince Mexico - which had struggled to get vaccines from U.S. companies - to sign an agreement for 24 million doses, though they have been slow to arrive.
Bolivia’s previously tight relations with Russia had reversed under President Luis Arce’s right-wing predecessor, but Arce, who took office in November, agreed to buy millions of doses. After speaking with Putin by phone, he also announced reactivation of a Russian-led project to build a nuclear research and technology center.
U.S. vaccine outreach, meantime, has been almost entirely indirect, with a pledge of $4 billion to the World Health Organization’s COVAX program to provide shots to low- and middle-income countries. Recently, such shipments have been delayed.
The U.S. has snatched up more doses than it will eventually need, and Biden has repeatedly said his focus is vaccinating all Americans before sharing vaccines abroad. The U.S. has had almost three times as many COVID-19 deaths per capita as Russia and, even with one of the world’s fastest immunization rollouts, Americans have complained about the pace.
By contrast, Russia’s own vaccination program has lagged because of widespread skepticism of the vaccine - a February poll showed only 30% of Russians were willing to get the shot - and drug makers being slow to ramp up production.
Only recently did Biden’s administration agree to provide 2.7 million surplus AstraZeneca doses to Mexico. Brazil has been trying to negotiate the same for itself, according to its foreign ministry.
“Although I truly think that the U.S. and European countries are the preferred partners in the region, if there is a vacuum, there isn’t the slightest doubt that China and Russia will seek a way to take advantage,” Mauricio Claver-Carone, the head of the Inter-American Development Bank, told the AP.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ 2020 annual report said in a section titled “Combatting malign influences in the Americas” that it had convinced Brazil to not to buy the Russian shot. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said March 16 other countries faced similar coercion, without naming them.
“The pressure has been unprecedented, tough and devoid of any diplomatic niceties,” Peskov said. “We are categorically against politicizing the situation with vaccines.”
Fabiano Mielniczuk, a professor who specializes in Russian international politics at Brazil’s Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, said suspicion of Russia represents an outdated Cold War mentality, and sees its moves to introduce the shot “much more as market-oriented action than as geopolitical action.”
Despite the assertion in the “malign influences” section, it’s unclear what action the U.S. took. The U.S. embassy denied exerting any pressure regarding vaccines approved by Brazil’s health regulator, which has not yet signed off on Sputnik V. Brazil’s government denied even being consulted.
Frustrated by the speed and bureaucracy of health regulator Anvisa, the Russians conducted phase 3 trials of its vaccine elsewhere, according to Bahia state’s Gov. Rui Costa, who had worked closely with the fund. At the time, Brazil still required local phase 3 trials for regulatory approval.
In a last-ditch effort, RDIF’s director Kirill Dmitriev reached out to former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, according to Alexandre Padilha, a lawmaker and former health minister who joined their subsequent meeting. That led to the nine states’ eventual deal for 37 million doses. RDIF declined to comment for this story.
“The northeastern governments already have various investment partnerships with the Chinese,” Padilha said. “I think without a doubt this can open doors for northeast governors to establish other partnerships and technology investments with the Russians.”
Putin meantime heaped flattery on Bolsonaro at a multinational summit in November, saying the Brazilian had “expressed the best qualities of masculinity and determination” by putting citizens’ interests before his own health. Bolsonaro posted video of the praise to social media.
Courting the rival former and current presidents simultaneously reflects Putin’s pragmatism, said Mielniczuk, the political science professor.
Brazil’s federal government agreed to buy 10 million doses.
Even after Anvisa dropped its demand for local phase 3 trials, the Brazilian lab that would produce Sputnik V locally - Uniao Quimica - struggled to clear hurdles.
RDIF’s Dmitriev told Brazilian magazine Veja in mid-March that he felt his vaccine was still facing political bias. But Anvisa said delays were technical, caused by lacking documentation, and on March 23 it held a five-hour meeting with Uniao Quimica and Gamaleya to iron out problems. A week later, Anvisa certified Uniao Quimica’s manufacturing practices.
On April 6, Bolsonaro spoke with Putin by video call and said afterward that his government was working to resolve “some obstacles″ to importing the shot. The leaders also discussed broader trade, defense industry cooperation and technology.
After the call was first reported, the former director of Brazil’s trade and investment promotion agency, Márcio Coimbra, said on Twitter, “Now distant from Washington, we may be closer than ever to Moscow.”
Some documentation is still missing, but Sputnik V is inching closer to approval in Brazil - and another soft-power score for Russia. It serves as a wake-up call, said Eric Farnsworth, who has developed and implemented U.S. policy in the region.
“We’re not the only ones that Latin America can interact with and they’re showing it right now,” said Farnsworth, vice president of the Council of the Americas, a New York-based organization promoting business in the region. “There is much ground to be recaptured, and the only way to do that would be to overwhelm the region with generosity in combatting the pandemic.”
___
Associated Press writer David Biller reported this story in Rio de Janeiro and AP writer Christopher Sherman reported from Mexico City. AP writers Josh Goodman and Gisela Salomon in Miami and Daria Litvinova in Moscow contributed to this report.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/apr/12/sputnik-vaccine-helping-russia-regain-latam-footho/


#68
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 13.04.2021
Заглавие: India to approve coronavirus shots green-lit by WHO, others


By ANIRUDDHA GHOSAL - Associated Press - Tuesday, April 13, 2021
NEW DELHI (AP) - India said Tuesday that it will approve the use of all coronavirus vaccines that have been given an emergency nod by the World Health Organization or regulators in the United States, Europe, Britain or Japan.
India’s Health Ministry said the decision was aimed at hastening the use of shots made in other countries and expanding the “basket of vaccines” available for domestic use. The country of almost 1.4 billion people is seeing a crippling surge of infections that is threatening to overwhelm hospitals in hard-hit cities.
The only way out of the crisis, experts say, is to vaccinate more people.
But this has global implications since India is a major vaccine producer and India’s domestic needs have delayed the delivery of shots to the U.N.-backed COVAX initiative that is aimed at distributing vaccines equitably.
India had earlier given the nod to the AstraZeneca vaccine made by Serum Institute of India and another one made by the Indian company Bharat Biotech.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
Now, vaccines that have received emergency use authorization by regulators in the U.S., Europe, Britain, Japan or the World Health Organization can be used in India. The Health Ministry also said Tuesday that the Russian Sputnik V vaccine had been green-lit for emergency use.
The Health Ministry said that safety will be monitored in the first 100 people who receive these shots, before its use is expanded to include others.
Dr. Shahid Jameel, who studies viruses at India’s Ashoka University, said that while the move was unlikely to help the country deal with the surge it was currently experiencing, it would help in vaccine availability going forward, consequently freeing up vaccines that could then be exported.
He said that this would pave the path for India to use vaccines made by companies with a manufacturing partner in India. For instance, vaccine maker Biological E Ltd is contracted to make the Johnson & Johnson coronavirus vaccine.
Jameel added that this would potentially open up the market for vaccines that require ultra-cold storage facilities to be sold in cities where such facilities are available. Vaccine prices in India are currently capped at 250 rupees or $3.30. This will also free up the government to subsidize the vaccines for the poor, while those can afford to buy more expensive vaccines can do so.
Russia has agreements with five Indian pharmaceutical companies to make more than 850 million doses of Sputnik V vaccines in India for the world. It has also inked a deal with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to conduct late trials and distribute up to 250 million doses in India.
But with four of Russia’s five deals inked in March and April, the doses are likely to be supplied later in the year. Moreover, Russia’s first manufacturing deal with India was with Hetero Biopharma for a 100 million doses - but it is unclear as to whether it has started making doses. Hetero Biopharma didn’t respond to queries by The Associated Press.
___
The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute’s Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/apr/13/india-to-approve-coronavirus-shots-green-lit-by-wh/


#69
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 14.04.2021
Заглавие: Russian President Putin gets 2nd COVID-19 vaccine shot


By DARIA LITVINOVA - Associated Press - Wednesday, April 14, 2021
MOSCOW (AP) - Russian President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday he got his second COVID-19 vaccine shot, three weeks after getting the first dose.
The Russian leader announced getting the jab, which was kept out of the public eye, at a session of the Russian Geographical Society, in which he took part via video link.
“Right now, before entering this hall, I have also gotten the second jab. I hope everything will be fine. I don’t even hope as much as I’m sure of it,” Putin said.
The president told reporters after the event that he didn’t experience any adverse effects after the second shot. “As you see, everything is normal, no side effects,” Putin said, adding that doctors told him he developed “a good immune response” after the first shot.
Putin got his first coronavirus shot on March 23, also out of sight of the cameras, and the Kremlin wouldn’t reveal which of the three vaccines currently approved for use in Russia the president has taken.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
The Russian leader’s vaccination comes several months after widespread immunization against COVID-19 started in Russia - a delay that puzzled many, with some critics arguing that it was contributing to the already existing public hesitancy about the vaccine.
Russian authorities have given regulatory approval to three domestically developed shots - Sputnik V, EpiVacCorona and CoviVac. All three received authorization before completing advanced trials experts say are necessary to ensure their safety and effectiveness in line with established scientific protocol.
However, a study published in February in the British medical journal the Lancet showed that Sputnik V is 91% effective and appears to prevent inoculated individuals from becoming severely ill with COVID-19, although it’s still unclear whether the vaccine can prevent the spread of the disease. No data on efficacy of the two other vaccines have been released.
Russia has been actively marketing Sputnik V abroad, despite the comparatively slow rollout at home and limited production capacities. Dozens of countries have approved the use of Sputnik V, and many signed deals with the Russian Direct Investment Fund that bankrolled the vaccine to get shipments of the shot.
A February poll by Russia’s top independent pollster, Levada Center, showed that 62% of Russians were reluctant to get vaccinated with Sputnik V.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/apr/14/russian-president-putin-gets-2nd-covid-19-vaccine-/


#70
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 14.04.2021
Заглавие: Businessmen in Honduras say they’ll buy coronavirus vaccines


By Associated Press - Wednesday, April 14, 2021
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras (AP) - The leader of Honduras’ Private Business Council said Wednesday that businessmen will try to buy as many as 1.5 million doses of coronavirus vaccines to assist in government vaccination efforts.
Council President Juan Carlos Sikaffy said the government had agreed to the plan, which would provide the vaccines at no cost to recipients and work through public health agencies.
“For the first and I believe the only time in Latin America, the private sector is working actively to negotiate, identify and import vaccines,” Sikaffy said.
“I think we should take up this unavoidable role to rescue the country’s economy,” he said, adding the government “has not been sufficiently effective in rapidly addressing the serious problem.”
The Honduran government has so far been able to obtain only about 52,000 doses. It had announced a deal in March for 4.2 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, but they have not arrived so far.
But health experts expressed concern, questioning whether the companies will be interested in vaccinating the poorest people in remote areas.
Suyapa Sosa, a doctor who heads the pulmonology department at the country’s leading cardio-pulmonary institute, said, “Even though we do recognize the private-sector initiative in the face of the government’s inability to handle the pandemic, private companies are worried about their personnel, their companies, and their money.”
“They are going to vaccinate the people they are interested in, those with insurance coverage, and the poor patient in outlying districts will not be vaccinated,” she predicted.
It is not clear how the business group would acquire vaccines, almost all of which to date have been acquired by national governments directly from manufacturers.
It would not be the first time Honduran businessmen have tried to buy vaccines. In March, authorities in Mexico seized 1,155 vials containing 5,700 doses of purported Sputnik 5 vaccine found in false bottoms of ice chests aboard a private plane bound for Honduras. The Russian vaccine’s distributor said they were not real Sputnik V.
A Honduran company, Grupo Karim’s, said later in a statement that the vaccine was not intended to be sold in Honduras, but rather to be given free to its employees and their families. The company said its employees had been hit hard by the pandemic and it was looking for a way to help them.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/apr/14/businessmen-in-honduras-say-theyll-buy-coronavirus/


#71
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 16.04.2021
Заглавие: German’s IDT to make 10M AstraZeneca vaccine doses in 2021




By Associated Press - Friday, April 16, 2021
BERLIN (AP) - German vaccine-maker IDT Biologika said Friday it plans to bottle this year some 10 million doses of the coronavirus shot developed by AstraZeneca.
IDT Biologika and AstraZeneca previously announced they would expand production capacity for the British-Swedish company’s vaccine at a plant in the German town of Dessau by the end of 2022.
The new agreement was made possible because a third manufacturer, Merz Pharma, relinquished the production capacity it had reserved with IDT for the second quarter.
IDT produces vaccines for several pharmaceutical companies. In March, the company announced that for three months it would make the single-dose COVID-19 shot developed by Johnson & Johnson.
Chief Executive Officer Juergen Betzing said Friday that IDT was also in talks with the developers of Russia’s Sputnik V shot, which has yet to be approved for use in the European Union.
The AstraZeneca vaccine is restricted to people over 60 in Germany due to concerns over rare blood clots in some recipients. Among those who received it recently are German Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Frank-Walter Steinmeier.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/apr/16/germans-idt-to-make-10m-astrazeneca-vaccine-doses-/


#72
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 27.04.2021
Заглавие: Brazil regulator rejects Sputnik vaccine; Russia cries foul




By DAVID BILLER - Associated Press - Tuesday, April 27, 2021
RIO DE JANEIRO (AP) - Brazil’s health regulator cited safety concerns while rejecting several states’ requests to import almost 30 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, prompting criticism from the Russian government.
The five-person board of the Brazilian Health Regulatory Agency unanimously decided late Monday that consistent and trustworthy data required was lacking for approval of the requests from 10 states, according to a statement. Another four states and two cities have also sought authorization to import the vaccine.
The agency, known as Anvisa, said there were faults in all clinical studies of the vaccine’s development, as well as absent or insufficient data.
The agency statement said that analysis indicated that the adenovirus on which the vaccine is based has the capacity to replicate, which could cause sickness or death, particularly among those with low immunity or respiratory problems. The Russian fund overseeing the vaccine’s marketing globally denied the claim.
“We will never permit, without the existence of due proof required, millions of Brazilians to be exposed to products without the due proof of their quality, safety and efficacy or, at minimum, in the face of the grave situation that we’re living through, a favorable cost-benefit relationship,” Anvisa’s president Antônio Barra Torres said in the statement.
Anvisa’s decision doesn’t affect a separate request from Brazilian company Uniao Quimica for emergency use authorization of Sputnik V produced locally, according to an emailed statement from Anvisa’s press office.
Still, it came as a blow to Russia’s efforts to promote worldwide adoption of the vaccine, whose exports have helped it regain diplomatic footholds in countries where relationships had languished.
“We need additional information on what this lack (of data) means, because there’s already more than enough data,” Kremlin’s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told reporters in a daily briefing.
“The contacts (with Brazil) will continue. If some data is lacking, it will be provided,” he added.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund said in a three-page statement that “no replication-competent adenoviruses were ever found in any of the Sputnik V vaccine batches produced.”
It was also more pointed in its criticism, saying that dozens of national health regulators have approved Sputnik V and Anvisa’s decision was “of a political nature and has nothing to do with the regulator’s access to information or science.”
The fund pointed to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ 2020 annual report, which said in a section titled “Combatting malign influences in the Americas” that it had convinced Brazil to not to buy the Russian shot. The U.S. Embassy in Brazil has denied exerting any pressure regarding vaccines approved by Brazil’s health regulator, and Brazil’s foreign ministry has denied being contacted.
Daniel Dourado, a Brazilian doctor and lawyer who is a researcher at the University of Sao Paulo, said on Twitter that he doubted politics played any role in Anvisa’s decision, as that would have required its directors to lie in their analysis. He added that, while the state governors’ hurry is understandable, Anvisa is correctly fulfilling its duty.
Brazil hasn’t lived up to its proud tradition of mass vaccination programs in this pandemic, with the Health Ministry ignoring early opportunities to purchase shots and facing shortages locally of vaccines it did acquire. The country has the world’s second-highest death toll, and will surpass the milestone of 400,000 deaths this week. The majority of that staggering tally came in just the last four months.
One of Anvisa’s directors, Cristiane Rose Jourdan Gomes, acknowledged the sensitivity of its decision since making available an array of vaccines is a priority in fighting COVID-19. She said she hopes Sputnik V can bring its information in line with requirements.
Denise Garrett, vice president of the Sabin Vaccine Institute that advocates for expanding global vaccine access, and who is Brazilian herself, also voiced support of Anvisa on Twitter.
“There is no way to approve Sputnik V with the information available at the moment,” she said. —- AP reporter Daria Litvinova contributed from Moscow


https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/apr/27/brazil-regulator-rejects-sputnik-vaccine-russia-cr/


#73
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 03.05.2021
Заглавие: Russia lags behind others in its COVID-19 vaccination drive


By DARIA LITVINOVA - Associated Press - Monday, May 3, 2021
MOSCOW (AP) - While at the Park House shopping mall in northern Moscow, Vladimir Makarov saw it was offering the coronavirus vaccine to customers, so he asked how long it would take.
“It turned out it’s simple here - 10 minutes,” he said of his experience last month.
But Makarov, like many Muscovites, still decided to put off getting the Sputnik V shot.
Russia boasted last year of being first in the world to authorize a coronavirus vaccine, but it now finds itself lagging in getting its population immunized. That has cast doubt on whether authorities will reach their ambitious goal of vaccinating more than 30 million of country’s 146 million people by mid-June and nearly 69 million by August.
The vaccine reluctance comes as shots are readily available in the capital to anyone 18 or older at more than 200 state and private clinics, shopping malls, food courts, hospitals - even a theater.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
As of mid-April, over 1 million of Moscow‘s 12.7 million residents, or about 8%, have received at least one shot, even though the campaign began in December.
That percentage is similar for Russia as a whole. Through April 27, only 12.1 million people have gotten at least one shot and only 7.7 million, or 5%, have been fully vaccinated. That puts Russia far behind the U.S., where 43% have gotten at least one shot, and the European Union with nearly 27%.
Data analyst Alexander Dragan, who tracks vaccinations across Russia, said last week the country was giving shots to 200,000-205,000 people a day. In order to hit the mid-June target, it needs to be nearly double that.
“We need to start vaccinating 370,000 people a day, like, beginning tomorrow,” Dragan told The Associated Press.
To boost demand, Moscow officials began offering coupons worth 1,000 rubles ($13) to those over 60 who get vaccinated - not a small sum for those receiving monthly pensions of about 20,000 rubles ($260).
Still, it hasn’t generated much enthusiasm. Some elderly Muscovites told AP it was difficult to register online for the coupons or find grocery stores that accepted them.
Other regions also are offering incentives. Authorities in Chukotka, across the Bering Strait from Alaska, promised seniors 2,000 rubles for getting vaccinated, while the neighboring Magadan region offered 1,000 rubles. A theater in St. Petersburg offered discounted tickets for those presenting a vaccination certificate.
Russia’s lagging vaccination rates hinge on several factors, including supply. Russian drug makers have been slow to ramp up mass production, and there were shortages in March in many regions.
So far, only 28 million two-dose sets of all three vaccines available in Russia have been produced, with Sputnik V accounting for most of them, and only 17.4 million have been released into circulation after undergoing quality control.
Waiting lists for the shot remain long in places. In the Sverdlovsk region, the fifth most-populous in Russia, 178,000 people were on a wait list by mid-April, regional Deputy Health Minister Yekaterina Yutyaeva told AP.
On April 28, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said there are enough vaccines available in Russia, adding that demand was the defining factor in the country’s vaccination rate.
Another factor in Russians’ reluctance over Sputnik V was the fact that it was rolled out even as large-scale testing to ensure its safety and efficacy was still ongoing. But a study published in February in the British medical journal The Lancet said the vaccine appeared safe and highly effective against COVID-19, according to a trial involving about 20,000 people in Russia.
A poll in February by Russia’s top independent pollster, the Levada Center, showed that only 30% of respondents were willing to get Sputnik V, one of three domestically produced vaccines available. The poll had a margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.
Dragan, the data analyst, says one possible explanation for the reluctance is the narrative from authorities that they have tamed the outbreak, even if that assessment might be premature.
With most virus restrictions lifted and government officials praising the Kremlin’s pandemic response, few have motivation to get the shot, he said, citing an attitude of, “If the outbreak is over, why would I get vaccinated?”
Vasily Vlassov, a public health expert at the Higher School of Economics in Moscow, echoed Dragan’s sentiment and also pointed to inconsistent signals from officials and media.
“Russians in 2020 were bombarded with contradictory messages - first about (the coronavirus) not being dangerous and being just a cold, then that it was a deadly infection,” he told AP. “Then they were banned from leaving their homes.”
Another narrative, he said, was that foreign vaccines were dangerous but Russian-produced ones were not. State TV reported adverse reactions linked to Western vaccines while celebrating Sputnik V’s international success.
A proper media campaign promoting vaccinations didn’t begin on state TV until late March, observers and news reports note. Videos on the Channel 1 national network featured celebrities and other public figures talking about their experience but didn’t show them getting injected. President Vladimir Putin said he received the shot about the same time, but not on camera.
“Fruitful ground for conspiracy theorists,” said Dragan, who also works in marketing.
Rumors about the alleged dangers of vaccines actually surged on social media in December, when Russia began administering the shots, and have continued steadily since then, said social anthropologist Alexandra Arkhipova.
The rumors combined with other factors - the pseudoscience on Russian TV, vaccine distribution problems and an uneven rollout of the promotional campaign - to hamper the immunization drive, Arkhipova told AP.
Vlassov, meanwhile, noted the outbreak in Russia is far from over, and there even are signs it is growing.
“Roughly the same number of people get infected every day in Russia now as last May, at the peak of the outbreak,” he said, adding that twice as many people are dying every day than a year ago.
Government statistics say infections have stayed at about 8,000-9,000 per day nationwide, with 300-400 deaths recorded daily. But new cases have been steadily increasing in Moscow in the past month, exceeding 3,000 last week for the first time since January.
Infection rates are growing in seven regions, Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova said on April 23, without identifying them. She blamed “insufficient vaccination rates” in some places.
And yet, the abundance of vaccines in Moscow has attracted foreigners who can’t get the shot at home. A group of Germans got their first jab at their hotel last month.
Uwe Keim, 46-year-old software developer from Stuttgart, told AP he believes “there are more vaccines available here in Russia than is demanded by the people here.”
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/may/3/russia-lags-behind-others-in-its-covid-19-vaccinat/


#74
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 03.05.2021
Заглавие: The Latest: Sri Lanka receives 1st batch of Sputnik V shots 


By The Associated Press - Associated Press - Monday, May 3, 2021 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka - Sri Lanka has received its first batch of the Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine.
The 15,000 doses were flown in early hours of Tuesday to the Indian ocean island nation which is struggling to obtain COVID-19 vaccines because of the delay in getting them from the neighboring India.
Sri Lanka has ordered 13 million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine from the Russia’s Gamaleya Institute.
State Minister of Pharmaceutical Production, Supply and Regulation Channa Jayasuma, and officials from the Russian embassy were present at the country’s main airport to receive the vaccines.
Jayasumana said he was hopeful that Sri Lanka would receive the total of 13 million doses of the Sputnik V from Russia in the future.
Sri Lanka is facing a shortage of 600,000 doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in order to complete the 2nd round of the vaccine program.
Under the first round, 925,242 persons were vaccinated and at present, Sri Lankan health ministry has about 350,000 doses and as a result, there is a shortage of 600,000 doses as the island nation so far did not get it’s vaccines ordered from India.
The number of COVID patients is rapidly rising across the country over the last week. Sri Lanka’s total number of positive cases have reached 111,753 with 696 fatalities.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/may/3/the-latest-india-adds-368000-new-virus-cases-3417-/


#75
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 03.05.2021
Заглавие: Russia turns to China to make Sputnik shots to meet demand 


By Huizhong Wu and Daria Litvinova - Associated Press - Monday, May 3, 2021 
TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP) — Russia is turning to multiple Chinese firms to manufacture the Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine in an effort to speed up production as demand soars for its shot.
Russia has announced three deals totaling 260 million doses with Chinese vaccine companies in recent weeks. It’s a decision that could mean quicker access to a shot for countries in Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa that have ordered Russia‘s vaccine, as the U.S. and the European Union focus mainly on domestic vaccination needs.
Earlier criticism about Russia‘s vaccine have been largely quieted by data published in the British medical journal The Lancet that said large-scale testing showed it to be safe, with an efficacy rate of 91%.
Yet, experts have questioned whether Russia can fulfill its pledge to countries across the world. While pledging hundreds of millions of doses, it has only delivered a fraction.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov has said demand for Sputnik V significantly exceeds Russia’s domestic production capacity.
To boost production, the Russian Direct Investment Fund, which bankrolled Sputnik V, has signed agreements with multiple drug makers in other countries, such as India, South Korea, Brazil, Serbia, Turkey, Italy and others. There are few indications, however, that manufacturers abroad, except for those in Belarus and Kazakhstan, have made any large amounts of the vaccine so far.
Airfinity, a London-based science analytics company, estimates Russia agreed to supply some 630 million doses of Sputnik V to over 100 countries, with only 11.5 million doses exported so far.
RDIF declined to disclose how many doses are going to other countries. Through April 27, less than 27 million two-dose sets of Sputnik V have been reportedly produced in Russia.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund, which has been in charge of international cooperation for Sputnik V, said in April it would produce 100 million doses in collaboration with Hualan Biological Bacterin Inc., in addition to an earlier deal announced in March for 60 million doses with Shenzhen Yuanxin Gene tech Co.
The two deals are in addition to a deal announced last November with Tibet Rhodiola Pharmaceutical Holding Co, which had paid $9 million to manufacture and sell the Sputnik V vaccine in China. RDIF said in April the terms of the deal were for 100 million doses with a subsidiary company belonging to Tibet Rhodiola.
Russia is “very ambitious and unlikely to meet their full targets,” said Rasmus Bech Hansen, founder and CEO of Airfinity. Working with China to produce Sputnik V could be a win-win situation for both Russia and China, he added.
In recent years, Chinese vaccine companies have turned from largely making products for use domestically to supplying the global market, with individual firms gaining WHO preapproval for specific vaccines - seen as a seal of quality. With the pandemic, Chinese vaccine companies have exported hundreds of millions of doses abroad.
Chinese vaccine makers have been quick to expand capacity and say they can meet China’s domestic need by the end of the year.
“This is an acknowledgment of the Chinese vaccine manufacturers who can produce at volume,” said Helen Chen, head of pharmaceuticals LEK Consulting, strategy consultancy firm in Shanghai, in an email.
However, none of the three Chinese companies have yet to start manufacturing Sputnik V.
Tibet Rhodiola started constructing a factory in Shanghai at the end of last year and expects production to start in September, the company said at an annual meeting for investors last month. Tibet Rhodiola’s chairman Chen Dalin also said that after the successful technology transfer, they will start with an order of 80 million doses to sell back to Russia. An employee at the company declined to transfer a phone call request to the company’s media department for comment.
The timeline for the newest deals are also unclear. Hualan Bio was among the 10 largest vaccines manufacturers in China in 2019. Phone calls to Hualan Bio went unanswered.
A spokeswoman for Shenzhen Yuanxing declined to say when the company will start production but said their order would not be for sale within China. RDIF had said the production will start this month.
In spite of the delays, Russia’s vaccine diplomacy has made gains.
From the outset, Russia, the first country to approve a coronavirus vaccine, aimed to distribute it globally. Within weeks of giving Sputnik V regulatory approval, RDIF started actively marketing it abroad, announcing multiple deals to supply the shot to other countries. It is so far winning the “public relations” battle, analysts said in a new report examining Russia and China’s vaccine diplomacy from the Economist Intelligence Unit.
“Russia has been able to build stronger diplomatic ties and in areas where it hasn’t been able to,” before, said Imogen Page-Jarrett, an analyst at EIU. “They have this window of opportunity while the US, E.U. and India are focusing on domestic and the rest of the world is crying out for a vaccine supply.”
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/may/3/russia-facing-lags-turns-to-china-to-produce-sputn/


#76
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 04.05.2021
Заглавие: Slovakia’s new government wins mandatory confidence vote


By Associated Press - Tuesday, May 4, 2021
BRATISLAVA, Slovakia (AP) - The new Slovakian government formed after a secret deal to buy Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine triggered a political crisis won a mandatory confidence vote in Parliament on Tuesday.
Lawmakers voted 89-55 to endorse the four-party coalition government led by Prime Minister Eduard Heger.
President Zuzana Caputova appointed the new Cabinet on April 1 after the government of populist Prime Minister Igor Matovic resigned, becoming the first European government to collapse due to its handling of the coronavirus pandemic.
The new Cabinet kept the same four-party coalition in power and avoided the possibility of an early election.
Matovic orchestrated a deal to acquire 2 million doses of the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine despite disagreement among his coalition partners. The secret deal came to light in early March.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
Two parties, Freedom and Solidarity and For People, demanded the prime minister’s resignation to keep the coalition - which holds a comfortable parliamentary majority - alive.
The crisis paralyzed the government in Slovakia at a time when the country was one of the European Union members hardest hit by the virus. The nation of 5.4 million has reported 11,855 virus-related deaths.
Heger, who is a close ally of Matovic’s and deputy head of his Ordinary People party, served as the finance minister and deputy prime minister in the previous government. Matovic assumed those posts in the new government.
After winning the parliamentary election on an anti-corruption ticket, Matovic struck a deal a year ago to govern with the pro-business Freedom and Solidarity party; the conservative For People, and We Are Family, a populist right-wing group that is allied with France’s far-right National Rally party.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/may/4/slovakias-new-government-wins-mandatory-confidence/


#77
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 04.05.2021
Заглавие: SKorea dairy company CEO resigns over virus research scandal


By Associated Press - Tuesday, May 4, 2021
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) - The chairman of one of South Korea’s biggest dairy companies has resigned over a scandal in which his company was accused of deliberately spreading misinformation that its yogurt helps prevent coronavirus infections.
While stepping down as the company’s head, Hong Won-sik and other members of his family will retain their commanding share in Namyang Dairy Products.
Namyang financed research it aggressively promoted through the media and a symposium it funded last month that claimed its Bulgaris yogurt drinks were effective in lowering the risk of coronavirus infections.
Namyang’s stock price rose temporarily before the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety sued the company for false advertising, saying the research was dubious and never involved any animal testing or clinical trials.
Police searched Namyang’s Seoul headquarters last week. Namyang’s CEO, Lee Kwang-bum, also offered to resign following a public uproar.
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
“I express my sincere apology for causing disappointment and anger to our country’s people with the Bulgaris-related controversy at a time when the nation is undergoing a hard time because of COVID-19,” Hong said, tearing up. He said he will take “all responsibility” by stepping down as chairman and promised not to pass on management rights to his children, which is a much-criticized practice at South Korea’s family-owned businesses.
In other developments in the Asia-Pacific region:
- Sri Lanka has received its first batch of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine following a delay in getting COVID-19 vaccines from India. The 15,000 doses were flown in Tuesday. Sri Lanka has ordered 13 million Sputnik doses, and Channa Jayasuma, the state minister for drug regulation, said he was hopeful Sri Lanka would receive the total order in the future. Sri Lanka is short 600,000 doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. It has administered the first shot to 925,242 people, but the health ministry has only about 350,000 doses, leaving people short the required second dose after a delay in getting the vaccines ordered from India. Meanwhile, coronavirus infections have spread rapidly. Sri Lanka has banned public gatherings and parties, schools are closed, and supermarkets and shopping complexes are limited to 25% of their customer capacity. It has counted 111,753 cases with 696 fatalities.
- North Korea is warning its people to brace for a prolonged struggle against the coronavirus, claiming that broadening outbreaks and muddled immunization programs in other countries show vaccines aren’t the ultimate solution. The column published by Pyongyang’s official Rodong Sinmun newspaper came amid questions on when and how vaccines would arrive in North Korea. The U.N.-backed program to ship COVID-19 vaccines worldwide said in February that North Korea could receive 1.9 million vaccine doses in the first half of this year. However, COVAX has since warned of global shortages because of India’s surging outbreak. The North has claimed a perfect record in keeping out COVID-19, but outside experts have doubted the claim. The state newspaper took an apparent shot at India’s anti-virus campaign without naming the country. It said a certain nation that had “exported vaccines it produced while publicly insisting that it considers the evil virus as defeated,” was now experiencing an explosive surge. “The cases of other countries provide further proof that vaccines aren’t an all-around solution,” the newspaper wrote.
- South Korean officials say North Korea has told Asia’s soccer governing body it will not participate in World Cup qualifiers scheduled in South Korea next month because of coronavirus concerns. Kim Min-soo, an official from South Korea’s Football Association, said Tuesday that the Asia Football Confederation has asked North Korea’s soccer association to reconsider its decision. He said North Korea notified the AFC of its intent to drop out of the matches on Friday. North Korea’s Olympic committee also said last month it has decided to drop out of the Tokyo Olympics to protect its athletes from the coronavirus. An official from South Korea’s Unification Ministry, which deals with inter-Korean affairs, said Seoul still hopes that North Korea will participate in the soccer matches in South Korea, saying they would provide a rare opportunity for sports exchanges during a sharp chill in bilateral relations. North Korea has stopped virtually all cooperation with South Korea and resumed testing of short-range weapons amid a stalemate in larger nuclear negotiations between the North and the United States. The two Koreas belong to Group H in the second round of Asian qualifiers for the 2022 World Cup. Following a monthslong delay because of the pandemic, the remaining group matches are set in South Korea in June.
- The World Health Organization is set to decide this week whether to approve two Chinese vaccines for emergency use against COVID-19. Mariangela Simao, WHO’s assistant director-general for access to medicines, vaccines and pharmaceuticals, said Monday some “final arrangements” remain to be made before the crucial word from a WHO technical advisory group comes on the Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines. The expected move would trigger broader use for the two vaccines in other countries.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/may/4/skorea-dairy-company-ceo-resigns-over-virus-resear/


#78
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 06.05.2021
Заглавие: Russia approves single-dose version of Sputnik V vaccine


By Associated Press - Thursday, May 6, 2021
MOSCOW (AP) - Russian authorities gave regulatory approval Thursday to a single-dose version of the country’s Sputnik V vaccine, arguing that the move could accelerate the process of achieving herd immunity against the coronavirus.
Named Sputnik Light, the new version is identical to the first dose of the two-dose Sputnik V. The regulatory approval will allow it to be marketed and administered as a separate COVID-19 vaccine.
The jab, however, has yet to complete its own advanced testing needed to ensure its safety and effectiveness in line with established scientific protocols. Russia started human trials of Sputnik Light in January, and the studies are still ongoing, according to official records.
The two-dose Sputnik V will remain “the main source of vaccination in Russia,” said Russian Direct Investment Fund CEO Kirill Dmitriev, whose organization bankrolls the Sputnik shots. Sputnik Light will be exported “to our international partners to help increase the rate of vaccinations in a number of countries in the face of the ongoing fight with the pandemic and new strains of coronavirus,” he said.
Sputnik Light is the fourth domestically developed COVID-19 vaccine approved in Russia. Commenting on the decision to authorize it for use, President Vladimir Putin said Thursday, “It’s nice to know that this range of tools (against COVID-19) is expanding.”
Inside the Beltway: Democrats are 'cheapening' the vote
Russian Health Minister Mikhail Murashko said authorizing a fourth jab will help speed up the process of forming herd immunity against the virus. Most scientists believe at least 70% of a population needs to be immunized to achieve herd immunity against COVID-19, but the exact threshold is still unknown.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund’s Dmitriev, said in a statement Thursday that “the single dose regimen solves the challenge of immunizing large groups in a shorter time, which is especially important during the acute phase of the spread of coronavirus, achieving herd immunity faster.”
Russia faced criticism last year for authorizing Sputnik V before advanced trials had even started and for offering it to medical workers while those trials were underway. The criticism was blunted by a study published in February in the British medical journal The Lancet, which said the vaccine appeared safe and 91% effective against COVID-19 based on a trial involving about 20,000 people in Russia.
Two other Russian vaccines - EpiVacCorona and CoviVac - also received regulatory approval before completing large-scale testing. No data on the efficacy of the vaccines has been released.
Despite having several vaccines available and being one of the first countries to start immunizing its population, Russia is currently lagging behind a number of nations in terms of its vaccination rates.
According to Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova, 13.4 million people in Russia, or just 9% of Russia’s population of 146 million, had received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine as of Thursday, while 9.4 million - 6% of the population- have been fully vaccinated.
Experts have questioned whether Russia will be able to meet the government’s targets of vaccinating 30 million people by mid-June and nearly 69 million by August.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/may/6/russia-approves-single-dose-version-of-sputnik-v-v/


#79
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 11.05.2021
Заглавие: Mexico: Russia’s Sputnik V shortages mean limited 2nd doses


By Associated Press - Tuesday, May 11, 2021
MEXICO CITY (AP) — Russian authorities have been having so many problems producing second doses of their Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine that Russia probably will be unable to supply enough to people who already got the first dose, Mexican officials said Monday.
It’s the latest account of production problems for Sputnik V, which the Russian government has been promising to other countries but has not been able to supply in sufficient quantities.
Sputnik is unusual among coronavirus vaccines in that the two doses are different and not interchangeable.
The Russian vaccine uses a modified version of the common cold-causing adenovirus to carry genes for the spike protein in the coronavirus as a way to prime the body to react if COVID-19 comes along.
That is a similar technology to the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. But unlike AstraZeneca’s two-dose vaccine, the Russian approach uses a slightly different adenovirus for the second booster shot.
Inside the Beltway: Democrats are 'cheapening' the vote
Mexico’s assistant health secretary, Hugo López-Gatell, said the Russians have found that the first adenovirus grows much more quickly than the second.
López-Gatell said Russian scientists are now suggesting abandoning the idea of giving the two separate Sputnik V shots several weeks apart and instead giving a second booster shot six months later.
“Over the course of months, the quantity of first doses they managed to produce got out of alignment with the quantity of second doses they were able to produce,” López-Gatell said.
Mexico has so far received only 1.9 million Sputnik V doses, out of a total of 24 million it has signed a contract for. It has been forced to rely more on the Pfizer vaccine, of which it has received 10.6 million doses, as well as about 10 million doses of two Chinese vaccines. It also received about 4.6 million doses of AstraZeneca’s vaccine.
Mexico has recorded over 219,000 test-confirmed COVID-19 deaths, but the country does so little testing that the government’s own estimates of probable deaths now amounts to around 347,000.
It is the latest in a series of setbacks for the Russian vaccine.
In April, regulatory authorities in Slovakia said they have not received enough information about the Sputnik vaccine from its producer to be able to assess its benefits and risks.
Slovakia’s State Institute for Drug Control said about 80% of the requested data had not been provided. It said the vaccine delivered to Slovakia was different from the original, two-dose Sputnik V vaccine that is considered 91% effective, according to a study published in the medical journal Lancet.
The official Twitter account of the Sputnik V vaccine lashed out, claiming that Slovakia’s drug regulator “has launched a disinformation campaign against Sputnik V.”
Also in April, Brazil’s health regulator cited safety concerns while rejecting several states’ requests to import almost 30 million doses of Sputnik.
Russia has been actively marketing Sputnik V abroad despite the comparatively slow rollout at home and limited production capacities. Dozens of countries have approved the use of Sputnik V, and many signed deals with the Russian Direct Investment Fund that bankrolled the vaccine to get shipments of the shot.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/may/11/mexico-russias-sputnik-v-shortages-mean-limited-2n/


#80
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 14.09.2021
Заглавие: Russia’s Putin to self-isolate due to COVID-19 cases among inner circle


By Tom Howell Jr. - The Washington Times - Tuesday, September 14, 2021
Russian President Vladimir Putin will self-isolate for a period because of possible exposure to the coronavirus even though he‘s tested negative for COVID-19 so far, the Kremlin said Tuesday.
The presidential office did not say how long Mr. Putin will be in seclusion, though the situation will rearrange his schedule.
He will attend meetings this week of the Collective Security Treaty Organization in Tajikistan and a Shanghai Cooperation Organization meeting by videoconference instead of in person.
“Vladimir Putin said that in connection with the identified cases of coronavirus in his environment, he must observe the self-isolation regime for a certain period of time,” the Kremlin said in a readout of a call Mr. Putin had with Tajik President Emomali Rahmon.
Mr. Putin, who reported he received two doses of his country’s Sputnik V vaccine this year, says Russia handled the COVID-19 pandemic better than Western countries.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
But some experts have questioned Russia‘s stat-keeping and whether the nation has done enough to wrangle the delta variant.
It has consistently reported 800 COVID-19 deaths per day since late July.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/sep/14/putin-to-self-isolate-due-to-covid-19-cases-among-/


#81
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 09.10.2021
Заглавие: Russians flock to Serbia for Western-made COVID-19 vaccines


By Jovana Gec and Daria Litvinova - Associated Press - Saturday, October 9, 2021
BELGRADE, Serbia (AP) — When Russian regulators approved the country’s own coronavirus vaccine, it was a moment of national pride, and the Pavlov family was among those who rushed to take the injection. But international health authorities have not yet given their blessing to the Sputnik V shot.
So when the family from Rostov-on-Don wanted to visit the West, they looked for a vaccine that would allow them to travel freely - a quest that brought them to Serbia, where hundreds of Russian citizens have flocked in recent weeks to receive Western-approved COVID-19 shots.
Serbia, which is not a member of the European Union, is a convenient choice for vaccine-seeking Russians because they can enter the allied Balkan nation without visas and because it offers a wide choice of Western-made shots. Organized tours for Russians have soared, and they can be spotted in the capital, Belgrade, at hotels, restaurants, bars and vaccination clinics.
“We took the Pfizer vaccine because we want to travel around the world,” Nadezhda Pavlova, 54, said after receiving the vaccine last weekend at a sprawling Belgrade vaccination center.
Her husband, Vitaly Pavlov, 55, said he wanted “the whole world to be open to us rather than just a few countries.”
Vaccination tour packages for Russians seeking shots endorsed by the World Health Organization appeared on the market in mid-September, according to Russia’s Association of Tour Operators.
Maya Lomidze, the group’s executive director, said prices start at $300 to $700, depending on what’s included.
Lauded by Russian President Vladimir Putin as the world’s first registered COVID-19 vaccine, Sputnik V emerged in August 2020 and has been approved in some 70 countries, including Serbia. But the WHO has said global approval is still under review after citing issues at a production plant a few months ago.
On Friday, a top World Health Organization official said legal issues holding up the review of Sputnik V were “about to be sorted out,” a step that could relaunch the process toward emergency use authorization.
Other hurdles remain for the Russian application, including a lack of full scientific information and inspections of manufacturing sites, said Dr. Mariangela Simao, a WHO assistant director-general.
Apart from the WHO, Sputnik V is also still awaiting approval from the European Medicines Agency before all travel limitations can be lifted for people vaccinated with the Russian formula.
The long wait has frustrated many Russians, so when the WHO announced yet another delay in September, they started looking for solutions elsewhere.
“People don’t want to wait; people need to be able to get into Europe for various personal reasons,” explained Anna Filatovskaya, Russky Express tour agency spokeswoman in Moscow. “Some have relatives. Some have business, some study, some work. Some simply want to go to Europe because they miss it.”
Serbia, a fellow-Orthodox Christian and Slavic nation, offers the Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Chinese Sinopharm shots. By popular demand, Russian tourist agencies are now also offering tours to Croatia, where tourists can receive the one-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine, without the need to return for a second dose.
“For Serbia, the demand has been growing like an avalanche,” Filatovskaya said. “It’s as if all our company is doing these days is selling tours for Serbia.”
The Balkan nation introduced vaccination for foreigners in August, when the vaccination drive inside the country slowed after reaching around 50% of the adult population. Official Serbian government data shows that nearly 160,000 foreign citizens so far have been vaccinated in the country, but it is unclear how many are Russians.
In Russia, the country’s vaccination rate has been low. By this week, almost 33% of Russia’s 146 million people have received at least one shot of a coronavirus vaccine, and 29% were fully vaccinated. Apart from Sputnik V and a one-dose version known as Sputnik Light, Russia has also used two other domestically designed vaccines that have not been internationally approved.
Russian Health Minister Mikhail Murashko recently said administrative issues were among the main holdups in the WHO’s review process.
Judy Twigg, a political science professor specializing in global health at Virginia Commonwealth University, expects Sputnik V to be approved eventually, but “maybe not by the end of this year.”
“The WHO has said that it needs more data, and it needs to go back and inspect some production lines where it saw issues early on. Those re-inspections are a multiweek process, with good reason. It’s not something that they just gloss over lightly.”
Amid low vaccination rates and reluctance by the authorities to reimpose restrictive measures, both Russia and Serbia have seen COVID-19 infections and hospitalizations reach record levels in the past weeks.
The daily coronavirus death toll in Russia topped 900 for a second straight day on Thursday - a day after reaching a record 929. In Serbia, the daily death toll of 50 people is the highest in months in the country of 7 million that so far has confirmed nearly 1 million cases of infection.
Pavlova said the “double protection” offered by the Pfizer booster shots would allow the family “to not only travel around the world, but also to see our loved ones without fear.”
Since the vaccine tours exploded in popularity about a month ago, they have provided welcome business for Serbian tour operators devastated by the pandemic in an already weak economy. The owner of BTS Kompas travel agency in Belgrade, Predrag Tesic, said they are booked well in advance.
“It started modestly at first, but day by day numbers have grown nicely,” Tesic said.
He explained that his agency organizes everything, from airport transport to accommodations and translation and other help at vaccination points. When they return for another dose in three weeks, the Russian guests also are offered brief tours to some of popular sites in Serbia.
Back in Russia, some Moscow residents said they understood why many of their fellow Russians travel abroad for vaccines. But Tatiana Novikova said homegrown vaccines remain her choice.
“I trust ours more, to be honest,” she said.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/oct/9/russians-flock-to-serbia-for-western-made-covid-19/




#82
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 09.10.2021
Заглавие: Moscow announces closures amid Russian COVID-19
surge


By Tom Howell Jr. - The Washington Times - Thursday, October 21, 2021
Moscow is set to reimpose lockdown measures to combat the surging coronavirus as the Russian vaccination
campaign lags.
Mayor Sergei Sobyanin on Thursday said all shops, bars and restaurants will close from Oct. 28 except for
supermarkets, pharmacies and other places that sell essential goods, according to Reuters.
The measures come on top of President Vladimir Putin’s decision Wednesday to declare a non-working week after
Oct. 30, in which all but essential workers are encouraged to stay home. Many of the days are public holidays,
anyway.
The decision comes as cases surge to record levels of more than 30,000 per day. Over 223,000 Russians have died
from the virus.
Russia’s vaccine, Sputnik V and a one-dose Sputnik Light, are widely available, but only 45 million of the country’s
146 million people have been fully vaccinated.
Joe Biden radicalism sends Democrat voters fleeing
The clampdown comes as some countries, notably Australia, abandon “zero COVID” strategies and learn to live
with the virus.
Some in the U.K. want the government to reimpose restrictions as cases climb again there, but top officials are
standing pat and said people should take personal responsibility by getting vaccinated or wearing a mask.
“We think it is the right decision to learn to live with this virus,” Health Secretary Sajid Javid said Wednesday.


https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/oct/21/moscow-announces-closures-amid-russian-covid-19-su/
#83
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 07.11.2021
Заглавие: Foreign citizens seek US-approved shots as travel resumes 


By Justin Spike - Associated Press - Sunday, November 7, 2021 
BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) — As COVID-19 ravaged Hungary in April, Budapest resident Akos Sipos received his second vaccine dose, believing he was doing the right thing for his own health and to help end the pandemic.
But Sipos, 46, soon discovered that the vaccine he received, Russia’s Sputnik V, disqualified him from traveling to a number of other countries where it hadn’t been approved. The nations include the United States, which is pushing forward with a new air travel policy that will make Sipos and many like him ineligible to enter.
“I thought it’s better to get Sputnik today than a Western vaccine at some uncertain future time,” Sipos, who works as a search engine optimization specialist, said of his initial decision to receive the jab. “But I couldn’t have known at that time that I wouldn’t be able to travel with Sputnik.”
Starting Monday, the United States plans to reopen to foreign travelers who are fully vaccinated against the coronavirus. But there’s a catch: non-immigrant adults need to have received vaccines authorized by the Food and Drug Administration or which received an emergency use listing from the World Health Organization.
That leaves many hopeful travelers across the globe who have taken full courses of vaccines widely used in other parts of the world - Sputnik V and the China-produced CanSino jab, in particular - scrambling to get reinoculated with shots approved by U.S. authorities.
Two other Chinese vaccines, Sinopharm and Sinovac, have been approved by the WHO and will thus be accepted for travel into the U.S.
Mexico received nearly 12 million doses of CanSino and almost 20 million of Sputnik V after shipments began earlier this year. Residents who got the required two shots of those vaccines now are looking to top up with shots of the Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca or Johnson & Johnson vaccines, hoping that will make them eligible to cross the border.
“They screwed those of us who got this vaccine,” said Rosenda Ruiz, 52, a public relations manager in Mexico City who received Sputnik V. “There are lots of Mexicans who want to travel, but we can’t. I am thinking of getting whatever other vaccine I can get.”
While Sputnik V is used in around 70 countries worldwide, it has still not been approved by either the FDA or the U.N. health agency. Nearly 1 million people have received the vaccine in Hungary, a Central European country of around 10 million.
Hungary was one of only two countries in the 27-member European Union to roll out the Russian vaccine. Fewer than 20,000 people received it in Slovakia.
Judit Molnar, president of the Association of Hungarian Travel Agencies, says so many Hungarians being unable to travel to the United States - or even to some countries in the EU which don’t accept the jab - has had an effect on her industry.
“We see that in the last few months, travelers are increasingly asking us when they can travel to America,” said Molnar, who is also president of the OTP Travel agency.
“These travelers are saying they really hope the situation will change and that the United States will accept the Sputnik vaccine. There are many people who would like to travel and in Hungary, many people were vaccinated with Sputnik,” she said.
Citizens of Russia, where use of Sputnik V is most widespread, also are seeking Western-approved shots so they can travel abroad. Faced with the prospect of being turned away from flights, Russians have booked tours to Serbia, which has authorized use of the Pfizer-BioNTech, China’s Sinopharm and the AstraZeneca vaccines in addition to Sputnik V.
Russia, which unveiled Sputnik V with much fanfare as the world’s first registered vaccine in August 2020, criticized U.S. plans to leave the vaccine off its list of approved shots.
“There are exactly zero reasons for such decisions,” Leonid Slutsky, chairman of the foreign relations committee in the Russian Duma, or lower house of parliament. “The effectiveness and safety of the Sputnik V vaccine has been proven not only by specialists, but also by its practical application.”
But the World Health Organization still is reviewing the vaccine, and months of holdups make it unclear when Sputnik V might receive an emergency use listing.
Hungary‘s government has made bilateral agreements with 24 countries - including Russia, Serbia, Mongolia, Georgia, and Kazakhstan - on mutually recognizing proof of vaccination, regardless of vaccine type.
Hungary‘s Ministry of Foreign Affairs told The Associated Press that it is open to a similar agreement with the United States, but “currently there is no ongoing negotiation.”
Sipos, the search engine specialist, said that while he was confident in Sputnik V’s efficacy, he recently sought a Western-approved booster shot, Moderna, so he could travel where he wants.
“I felt deceived because they accept Sputnik in more than 60 countries in the world, but in tons of other countries they don’t,” he said.
Silvia Morales, 38, a public high school teacher in Monterrey, Mexico, said she recently received a Moderna shot after hearing that the U.S. government wouldn’t recognize her CanSino vaccine.
She said she “needed to have peace of mind” about her level of protection against the virus.
“But I also love traveling to the United States,” she said.
Marcos Martínez Chacón in Monterrey, Mexico, and Jim Heintz in Moscow, contributed to this report.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/nov/7/foreign-citizens-seek-us-approved-shots-as-travel-/


#84
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 09.11.2021
Заглавие: Despite reopening, the U.S. is still closed to many in world


By Tali Arbel and Anne D'Innocenzio - Associated Press - Tuesday, November 9, 2021
NEW YORK (AP) — The U.S. says that it’s inviting the global community to visit now that the government has ended the ban on travelers from 33 countries.
In reality, however, it will still be difficult — if not impossible — for much of the globe to enter the country and experts say it will take years for travel to fully recover.
For starters, half the world isn’t vaccinated and therefore doesn’t meet the U.S. requirement for visiting foreigners. So while many Europeans may now be able to come in, people from poorer countries where vaccines are scarce remain cut off, with limited exceptions.
For some public health experts, that raises ethical questions about the policy.
“The concern is not limiting access based on vaccination status,” said Nancy Kass, deputy director of public health in the Berman Institute of Bioethics at Johns Hopkins University. “It is that it’s systemically making it impossible for people, generally from poor countries, whose governments have been unable to secure anything near the supply they need, to be able to come and see their loved ones.”
Bill de Blasio announces he won't run for governor of New York
Even if you’ve gotten the jab, that might not be good enough. Non-immigrant adults need to have received vaccines authorized by the Food and Drug Administration or which received an emergency use listing from the World Health Organization, otherwise they, too, are prohibited from entering the U.S. That sidelines anyone who’s received Russia’s Sputnik V or the China-produced CanSino jab.
Then there are the months-long delays in some places to get a visa. The U.S. Travel Association says that, on average, there’s a six-month visitor visa appointment backlog as many U.S. consulates and embassies have yet to resume normal operations. Meanwhile, other countries have their own set of strict rules, which complicates foreign travel.
Experts do expect a wave of travelers at U.S. airports, which will go a long way to boost the overall industry. The 28 European countries that up until Monday were barred under the U.S. policy made up 37% of overseas visitors in 2019, the U.S. Travel Association says.
Travelport, which analyzes airline bookings data, says that by region, the greatest number of international travelers to the U.S. since mid-2020 has come from Latin America, but new travelers booking flights since late September, when the Biden administration said it would end the travel bans, are mainly European. The reopening of the land borders with Canada and Mexico should also help restore travel, since they are typically the top two sources of international visitors to the U.S.
But the U.S. Travel Association predicted in June that international travel would not return to 2019 levels of nearly 80 million visitors until 2024. Foreign travelers dropped to 19 million in 2020 and are expected to rise a bit this year, to more than 26 million; it will more than double, to about 57 million, in 2022 but still fall far short of its pre-pandemic heights.
The U.S. isn’t alone in trying to jump-start travel as more people get vaccinated. Some countries that closed their borders have begun easing back, like Australia, India and Thailand; Europe opened its doors to Americans months ago.
Others, like China and Japan, remain essentially closed, which makes it difficult for their own citizens to leave and come back because of mandatory quarantines. In 2019, the two countries were among the top five biggest sources of overseas visitors to the U.S., along with the U.K., South Korea and Brazil, according to U.S. government data.
Sylvia Li, who is from China and lives in the U.S., just married her partner in a small ceremony in New York a few weeks ago without her family there because she had no idea when they’d be able to come or when she’d be able to go to China.
“I was able to convince them, it’s really nothing, it’s just a party,” Li said. But her mom didn’t fall for it. “I think my mom felt she was missing out. She felt like she was actually missing something big.”
Edgar Orozco, who owns two restaurants, both called Chelito’s, in El Paso, Texas, was excited for the land border with Mexico to reopen on Monday, and he hopes that helps fill the streets of downtown El Paso with shoppers - and customers at his restaurants - this holiday season, unlike last year, when he said streets were empty.
“Now that non-essential travelers are going to be able to come back, we’re looking forward to going back to those good old days,” he said.
But he’s heard of people who have visa issues, like a vendor in Mexico who he says can’t renew his visa until 2023. The appointment wait time for a U.S. visitor visa in Cuidad Juarez, just across the border from El Paso, is 676 days, or nearly two years, according to the State Department.
In New York, the country’s biggest tourist destination, businesses are gearing up for more international travelers. Hudson Yards, a shopping complex, is expanding its concierge services to include a wider array of foreign languages. City Experiences, a tour company that sends ferries to the Statue of Liberty and other sites, is increasing marketing abroad.
In the past two weeks, 75% of new bookings at three Moxy hotels in Manhattan have come from Europe, mostly the United Kingdom, Spain, France and Germany, said Mitchell Hochberg, president of the hotels’ operator, Lightstone.
Still, Hochberg thinks it will take until at least spring for international bookings to be back to their pre-pandemic levels.
“Travel can be cumbersome,” he said. “The flights are somewhat limited right now.”
Worry about getting COVID-19 also continues to put a damper on travel plans for many, even if they’re now allowed in.
Mehek Khera doesn’t want her parents in India to visit her in Santa Clara, California, even though they could now - they’re vaccinated and have visas. But the risk of getting sick is too high. Her father has a heart condition, and they don’t have health insurance in the U.S.
“We don’t feel comfortable adding on another risk on top of that,” Khera said. “They don’t feel very excited to travel.”
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/nov/9/despite-reopening-the-us-is-still-closed-to-many-i/


#85
Дата: 24.11.2021
Название статьи: Putin tests experimental nasal vaccine against COVID-19 


By Daria Litvinova - Associated Press - Wednesday, November 24, 2021 
MOSCOW (AP) – President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday he has taken an experimental nasal vaccine against the coronavirus, three days after he received his booster shot.
Russia is facing its worst surge of infections and deaths since the pandemic began and is struggling to overcome widespread vaccine hesitancy.
Putin was vaccinated with Sputnik V, Russia‘s domestically developed COVID-19 vaccine, in the spring. On Sunday, he said he received a booster shot of Sputnik Light, the one-dose version of the jab, and said he wanted to take part in testing the nasal version of Sputnik V.
Denis Logunov, deputy director of Russia‘s state-funded Gamaleya Center that developed Sputnik V, told Putin on Sunday the nasal vaccine is yet to go through clinical studies and is currently being tested “off-label mostly” - on the center’s staff members.
In accordance with established scientific protocols, the vaccine will need to go through several trial phases, including those involving thousands of people, to establish that it is safe and effective to use.
Last month, Russia‘s Health Ministry gave a regulatory go-ahead to early trials of the nasal form of Sputnik V among 500 volunteers, but it was not immediately clear whether it has already started.
Putin told a government meeting Wednesday that “exactly six months after vaccination my titers of protective (antibodies) have dropped, and specialists recommended the procedure of revaccination, which I did.”
He said he didn’t experience any unpleasant effects after taking the nasal vaccine.
In recent weeks, Russia has been swept by its highest ever COVID-19 surge, with officials regularly registering record-high numbers of new infections and deaths.
The surge came amid low vaccination rates and lax public attitudes toward taking precautions. Fewer than 40% of Russia’s nearly 146 million people have been fully vaccinated, even though the country approved a domestically developed COVID-19 vaccine months before most of the world.
Russians are currently offered four domestically developed vaccines, with Sputnik V and Sputnik Light dominating the market. Data on efficacy of two other ones, EpiVacCorona and CoviVac, is yet to be released; just like Sputnik V, these two shots have been given regulatory approval before completing late-stage trials necessary to establish their effectiveness in preventing disease.
Russia‘s Health Ministry is expected to approve a version of Sputnik V for teenagers aged 12 to 17 on Wednesday, Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova told Putin during the government meeting.
According to the Russia‘s state registry of clinical trials, the jab, which is in essence a smaller dose of Sputnik V, was being tested on more than 3,600 volunteers. No data on its efficacy has been released yet.
The immunization drive in Russia has been hampered by widespread vaccine hesitancy. A poll released by the independent pollster Levada Center earlier this month showed that 45% of Russians weren’t willing to get domestically developed shots.
In an effort to boost vaccine uptake, doctors from 11 Russian hospitals released an open letter Wednesday, inviting those skeptical of vaccines - and a number of prominent public figures in particular who are known to air their skepticism in public - to visit coronavirus wards and intensive care units with COVID-19 patients.
“Maybe after that you’ll change your mind and fewer people will be dying,” the letter read.
Russia‘s state coronavirus task force reported 33,558 new infections on Wednesday and 1,240 deaths. Golikova called the daily mortality numbers “dramatic,” noting at the same time that contagions in the country have taken a downward trend.
In total, the task force has reported over 9.4 million confirmed infections and more than 267,000 COVID-19 deaths, by far the highest death toll in Europe. Some experts believe the true figure is even higher.
Reports by Russia’s statistical service, Rosstat, that tally coronavirus-linked deaths retroactively, reveal much higher mortality. They say 462,000 people with COVID-19 died between April 2020 and September of this year.
Russian officials have said the task force only includes deaths for which COVID-19 was the main cause, and uses data from medical facilities. Rosstat uses wider criteria for counting virus-related deaths and takes its numbers from civil registry offices where registering a death is finalized.
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2021/nov/24/putin-tests-experimental-nasal-vaccine-against-cov/