Washington Post
Запрос: Sputnik V
Всего документов: 113


#1
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 11.08.2020
Заглавие: Putin is reckless because we allow him to be
By David Ignatius
Columnist 
August 11, 2020


We speak often of the return of the Cold War mentality. Rarely is it demonstrated as clearly as in President Vladimir Putin’s announcement Tuesday that Russia’s coronavirus vaccine will be called Sputnik V, evoking the 1957 Soviet satellite that kicked off the space race.
 “I think they view it as some kind of a propaganda coup,” said Sen. Angus King (I-Maine), noting that Russia apparently plans to dispense the vaccine this month before completing the usual safety trials. King, who sits on the Senate Intelligence and Armed Services committees, saw this news as another example of Russia aggressively seeking to expand its influence — at low cost and maximum impact.
The United States is Putin’s main target in this “anything goes” campaign to revive his country’s reputation as a superpower. That includes a new Russian push to support President Trump in the presidential election, repeating the Kremlin’s interference of four years ago, according to William Evanina, head of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center.
“We assess that Russia is using a range of measures to primarily denigrate former Vice President [Joe] Biden and what it sees as an anti-Russian ‘establishment,’ ” Evanina said in a statement last week, adding that “some Kremlin-linked actors are also seeking to boost President Trump’s candidacy.” Evanina warned, too, about Chinese and Iranian election interference, but intelligence professionals say those efforts are less sophisticated and less dangerous than Russia’s.
Putin appears oblivious to risks and consequences, but he may be cannier than that. Trump’s reelection might seem a long shot now, but even if he loses, the post-election discord in the United States will benefit Putin. What if the Sputnik vaccine doesn’t work? Putin can deny the negative results, ignore them, or just steal the version that works. What if GRU bounty hunters in Afghanistan and assassins in Europe are exposed? No matter, Putin has succeeded in intimidating his adversaries.
In his quest for recognition and revenge, Putin keeps defying the norms of international behavior. That’s why the issue of Russian bounties to the Taliban matters — and Trump’s refusal to confront Putin about it should worry us. This Russian leader doesn’t stop until someone challenges him.
Intelligence agencies have solid evidence that Russian military intelligence officers, from the shadowy Unit 29155 of the GRU, paid money to Taliban fighters whose bombing killed three U.S. Marines in April 2019. What’s more, sources say, there are forensic links between the GRU officers involved in the Afghan operation and GRU colleagues who carried out the attempted assassination of Russian defector Sergei Skripal in March 2018 in Salisbury, England.
Far from deterring Putin, the exposure of the alleged Salisbury assassination attempt was a prelude to the reckless GRU bounties. Putin is stuck in an endless loop of revenge. The Soviet Union is dead and gone, and the Cold War is ancient history — but not for this former KGB officer. He’s still fighting the lost cause: It’s not enough to denigrate his enemies; he actively pursues and tries to kill them. Rather than reforming Russia’s corrupt, authoritarian system, he works to undermine the United States’ fragile democracy.
Europe has tracked Putin’s brutal score-settling — which isn’t difficult because his operatives barely bother to hide the evidence. The British investigative website Bellingcat has alleged that, in 2015, two GRU officers poisoned a Bulgarian arms manufacturer; Bellingcat has also described the GRU’s role in a 2016 coup attempt in Montenegro. Special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, meanwhile, laid out the evidence that the GRU assaulted Democratic Party websites in 2016. Britain has revealed GRU officers’ role in the alleged Skripal assassination attempt in March 2018. The following month, four GRU officers were caught in a botched hacking operation in the Netherlands.
The GRU covert warriors were so brazen that they even created a “rear base” in the French Alps, used by 15 operatives, according to a December 2019 report by the French newspaper Le Monde. Not only has Russian intelligence tried to murder defectors in Britain, but a 2018 New York Times report alleged that Russia sent a hit man to Florida four years before to kill an unidentified defector there.
How should the United States deal with Putin? George P. Shultz and William J. Perry, highly respected former secretaries of state and defense, respectively, joined more than 100 other prominent experts in endorsing an open letter, published by Politico, calling for a pragmatic, dispassionate attempt to rebuild relations with Moscow.
Rethinking assumptions is often valuable in foreign policy. But in this case, the rethinking should begin with an embittered Kremlin, which seems to relish icons of the Cold War and unwisely keeps taunting the United States. Putin takes pleasure in jabbing his enemies but, over the long run, he is not going to win this fight.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/putin-is-reckless-because-we-allow-him-to-be/2020/08/11/2e89b79c-dc17-11ea-b205-ff838e15a9a6_story.html


#2
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 11.08.2021
Заглавие: Russia unveils coronavirus vaccine ‘Sputnik V,’ claiming breakthrough in global race before final testing complete


By Isabelle Khurshudyan
 and Carolyn Y. Johnson
August 11, 2020
MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin claimed Tuesday that Russian scientists achieved a breakthrough in the global vaccine race, announcing that the country has become the first to approve an experimental coronavirus vaccine and that his own daughter has already taken a dose.
Officials have pledged to administer the possible vaccine to millions of people this summer and fall — including tens of thousands of teachers and front-line health-care workers in the coming weeks, before even finishing clinical trials. The formula was developed by the Gamaleya Institute in Moscow.
But Russia’s hard charge toward a potential vaccine has raised alarm among global health experts that the country is jumping dangerously ahead of critical, large-scale testing that is essential to determine if a possible protection against the coronavirus is safe and effective. Few details of the Gamaleya research have been made public or have undergone peer review.
Russia’s Health Ministry did not respond to requests for comment, and the Gamaleya Institute referred an interview request to the ministry.
Konstantin Chumakov, a member of the Global Virus Network, an international coalition working on viral threats, said “it is scientifically impossible to prove efficacy” without widespread trials, known as Phase 3.
“Using it in general population before the results of Phase 3 trials are fully studied is a gamble,” he said. “A Russian roulette, if you will.”
Cold War namesake
The vaccine is named Sputnik V, a reference to the first orbital satellite, which was launched by the Soviet Union in 1957 and set off the global space race. The name also evokes how Putin’s government has seen the vaccine race as a point of national pride and competition on a global scale, with labs in the United States, Europe, China and elsewhere also in the hunt for a potential vaccine.
“Of course, what counts most is for us to be able to ensure the unconditional safety of the use of this vaccine and its efficiency in the future. I hope that this will be accomplished,” Putin said at a meeting with government members Tuesday, adding that one of his two daughters had received the potential Gamaleya vaccine. He didn’t identify which daughter.
Russian labs race to find a covid-19 vaccine by fall, but concerns raised about fast-track methods
The aggressive strategy from a country eager to declare a victory amid one of the worst outbreaks in the world has been criticized by outside scientists who worry that shots could be harmful or give people a false sense of security about their immunity. China has already authorized one vaccine for use in its military, ahead of definitive data that it is safe and effective.
“This is changing the rules. This is cutting corners,” said J. Stephen Morrison, senior vice president at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “It’s a major development, and it starts with Putin. He needs a win.
“It’s hearkening [back to] the Sputnik moment,” he added. “It’s harking back to the glory days of Russian science; it’s putting the Russian propaganda machine into full gear. I think this could backfire.”
Peter Hotez has been working on coronavirus vaccines for years. He explains why developing a vaccine for the current pandemic will take time. (The Washington Post)
The international jockeying to find a vaccine has sharpened concerns about vaccine nationalism, in which countries’ need to declare victory over the pandemic could bypass long-standing safeguards to protect people from unproven medical products by ensuring that their benefits outweigh the risks.
For Russia, leading the vaccine race is an avenue for greater geopolitical clout. But the country is also looking to avoid appearing dependent on Western powers, with whom relations are historically poor, analysts said.
Last month, security officials from the United States, Britain and Canada accused hackers linked to a Russian intelligence service of trying to steal information from researchers working to produce coronavirus vaccines in those countries.
Russian officials denied that, and Kirill Dmitriev, head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund that bankrolled the country’s vaccination effort, dismissed international scrutiny of Russia’s own vaccine efforts as political.
“For countries, it’s difficult to acknowledge that, ‘How is it possible that Russia, which has been always shown as this backward, authoritarian country, can do this?’ ” Dmitriev said last week.
Dmitriev said Russia has received preliminary applications for more than 1 billion doses of the vaccine from 20 countries and is prepared to manufacture more than 500 million doses of the vaccine per year in five countries.
Russia’s move could potentially increase political pressure on other countries to take a similar bet on an unproven vaccine.
That’s a huge concern because any adverse effects from the vaccine are far less likely to be transparently reported if it is given outside of a rigorous trial. There’s also concern, Morrison said, that people will be coerced to take an unproven and potentially dangerous vaccine to keep their jobs.
“We’re seeing, in all countries, the tension between the political need to demonstrate to the public you’re doing something useful and the scientific hesitancy to only act when a vaccine is shown to be safe and effective,” said Mark Poznansky, director of the Vaccine and Immunotherapy Center at Massachusetts General Hospital.
At a congressional hearing this month, Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, testified that it would be problematic if countries made a vaccine available before extensive testing.
“I do hope that the Chinese and the Russians are actually testing the vaccine before they are administering the vaccine to anyone, because claims of having a vaccine ready to distribute before you do testing, I think, is problematic at best,” Fauci said.
A coronavirus vaccine won’t change the world right away
Driven by the urgency of the pandemic, countries around the world are placing massive advance orders for vaccines and spending billions of dollars to help companies scale up production before they are proven safe and effective.
The risk is mainly a financial one — if the vaccines do not succeed in large-scale clinical trials, they will not be used.
The leading Russian vaccine candidate has so far been tested in small, early clinical trials designed to find the right dose and assess any safety concerns. It was given to scientists who developed it, in self-experimentation that is unusual in modern science, as well as to 50 members of the Russian military and a handful of other volunteers.
Dmitriev said Russia will go ahead with Phase 3, a larger trial involving thousands of participants normally considered an essential precursor to receive regulatory approval. Parallel trials are planned in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and possibly Brazil and the Philippines, he said.
The southern Brazilian state of Paraná announced that it will begin producing the possible Russian vaccine in November.
Russia also intends to start using the potential vaccine on willing front-line medical workers and teachers, who will be asked to document how they’re feeling. But while Russian officials have repeatedly assured that the vaccine is safe, Dmitriev was unable to say if it was tested on someone already infected with the coronavirus. Some vaccines, like one developed for dengue fever and used in the Philippines, can make the disease more severe.
“We will have tens of thousands of people already vaccinated like this in August,” Dmitriev said.
Two coronavirus vaccines begin the last phase of testing: 30,000-person trials
The World Health Organization still lists the Gamaleya vaccine as being in Phase 1.
“We are in close contact with Russian health authorities and discussions are ongoing with respect to possible WHO prequalification of the vaccine,” WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic said at a briefing in Geneva.
“But again,” he continued, “prequalification of any vaccine includes the rigorous review and assessment of all required safety and efficacy data.”
Lack of transparency
Most of what outside scientists know about the experimental vaccine is from secondhand sources and not from published medical studies. Dmitriev acknowledged that while that may be unusual elsewhere, Russia is traditionally secretive in its scientific endeavors.
The results from Phases 1 and 2 will be published by the end of this month, he said, adding that the delay came from waiting for formal registration.
“You have to think a little bit about the Russian system; after Sputnik was flying for five days, only on Day 5 did Russia acknowledge that there is a satellite flying,” he said.
Russia’s vaccine uses two doses to deliver different harmless cold viruses, or adenoviruses, that have been engineered to carry into cells the gene for the spiky protein that studs the outside of the coronavirus.
The approach was inspired by the Ebola vaccines Gamaleya developed in 2015 and 2018. But while Putin boasted earlier this year that Russia’s Ebola vaccine “proved to be the most effective in the world,” the WHO still lists it as a “candidate vaccine” on its website.
Adenoviruses are also being used by scientists at the pharmaceutical giant Johnson & Johnson, the Chinese company CanSino Biologics and the University of Oxford in their vaccine candidates.
But those other efforts have published data on how vaccines perform in animals ranging from mice to monkeys, and also presented data from early human trials showing the severity of any reactions, ranging from soreness at the injection site to fevers.
The CanSino vaccine uses one of the same harmless viruses the Russians are using in its vaccine, and its results have been disappointing to some scientists.
Dmitriev said his personal confidence in Russia’s vaccine was so high that he, his wife and his parents, both over the age of 70, were test subjects. He said just his wife reported a mild fever the first night of the injection.
“It’s not some crazy Russians using some crazy not proven stuff,” Dmitriev said. “Adenovirus existed with humans for thousands of years, and we made a bet on this proven platform because we understand that it takes very little time to develop, given the challenges.”
Johnson reported from Washington. Terrence McCoy in Rio de Janeiro contributed to this report.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/russia-unveils-coronavirus-vaccine-claiming-victory-in-global-race-before-final-testing-is-complete/2020/08/11/792f8a54-d813-11ea-a788-2ce86ce81129_story.html


#3
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 11.08.2020
Заглавие: Putin can have his vaccine. I’ll be waiting for the vetted one.


By Kathleen Parker
Columnist 
August 11, 2020
A while back, when many Americans read not one but two newspapers — morning and afternoon — a saying emerged in my first newsroom: The afternoon paper gets the story, the morning paper gets it right.
Having worked for two (now dead) afternoon papers, I could argue for swapping the order, but the message endures: Hurrying to beat competitors and get the story first often meant essential revisions, if not corrections, later. It takes time to properly report a story.
My memory of this essential truth was jarred by the news that Russia has announced the development of an effective covid-19 vaccine, which President Vladimir Putin has named Sputnik V.
Bless his heart. Already in the final phase of human trials, the vaccine has raised concerns that the lab behind the vaccine, the Gamaleya Institute in Moscow, might have cut corners in trying to beat the clock.
The vaccine’s name tells most of the story. Sputnik, of course, refers to the then-Soviet Union’s first man-made satellite, which was launched Oct. 4, 1957. About the size of a beach ball, Sputnik orbited the Earth for about three weeks before its batteries died. After circling silently for an additional two months, the orb finally reentered the Earth’s atmosphere and rolled into history’s dustbin. It didn’t matter; the Soviets were most pleased to have left the United States fumbling at the launchpad.
Rivalry was a powerful motivator at the time: The Soviets and Americans were competing to develop rocket, engine and reentry technologies. Today, the egos have just expanded commensurate to the challenge of stopping a deadly virus that is galloping around the globe.
As a point of pride, Putin pointed out that one of his own daughters has taken the vaccine and suffered only a slight, short-lived temperature increase. That sounds convincing, doesn’t it? My daughter didn’t die, so it’s all good.
One can’t help but wonder how that father-daughter conversation might have gone. Did Maria and Katerina draw straws? Putin isn’t saying which of his adult daughters took the two doses, only that whichever daughter was inoculated “has taken part in the experiment.”
I do wonder what the former Mrs. Putin makes of all this.
Clinical trial volunteers are surely the bravest and most selfless of souls, or, as in Putin’s trials, “volunteers” and military personnel. The human studies began on June 17 with 76 volunteers, half of whom received a liquid form of the vaccine, the other half a soluble powder. Putin’s claim that the vaccine is safe has so far not convinced other health and research authorities, including the World Health Organization. (Does that mean we like the WHO now?)
Putin could have truly found the magic formula, of course, especially if Russian hackers stole vaccine research from Western labs. The United States, Britain and Canada claimed last month Russian hackers were attempting to do just that. Maybe Russia has hit on a workable vaccine, which Putin says will be good for two years. If Russia got there first, it will have gone some distance to reclaiming some of the prestige its leader, at least, so desperately craves.
Putin is like any other former KGB empire-monger. His ambitions can be summed up in the words he used to describe his dog when he introduced the gigantic beast to then-President George W. Bush: “Bigger, stronger, faster,” said Putin. Bush recounted this story to me and a few other opinion writers in the Oval Office one day. Although the “beast” was a friendly black Lab named Konni and a regular guest at official meetings — and Putin was reportedly just needling his ranch-buddy — Bush saw a useful metaphor that he packed away as a reminder for future dealings.
To wit: When the coronavirus hit Russia, Putin ordered officials to speed up vaccine development and, one may infer, create a concoction bigger, stronger and faster than all the rest. Like his American counterpart, Putin cares most about winning, and Sputnik V is his metaphor.
We won’t have long to wait and see what a mass vaccination looks like. Large-scale production of Sputnik V is slated to begin next month, with vaccinations possibly in early October. First in line will be — yikes — doctors, maybe as soon as September. “First, kill the doctors” has a certain unhelpful ring to it, but Putin stresses they will be volunteers.
The real test, of course, would be for Putin himself to accept the first injection of the mass-produced vaccine. Maybe his other daughter could join him.
As for me, I’ll be waiting for the morning edition — after the revisions and corrections have been made.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/creating-a-vaccine-isnt-a-race-mr-putin/2020/08/11/e3711382-dc0b-11ea-b205-ff838e15a9a6_story.html


#4
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 11.08.2020
Заглавие:U.S. coronavirus deaths once again top 1,000 a day, as Florida, Georgia hit records


By Brady Dennis
August 11, 2020
Coronavirus-related deaths in the United States topped 1,000 again Tuesday after a weekend lag, suggesting that the trend of four-digit single-day death tolls will continue for a fourth week.
Tuesday also saw multiple states report new highs for fatalities linked to the virus. Major football conferences canceled their fall seasons. School districts around the country continued to grapple with how — and whether — to allow students back into classrooms.
The day unfolded like so many others in this pandemic summer — with glimpses of a country trying to inch back toward normalcy, alongside reminders of how far that goal remains. Stocks rose, then fell.
As the worldwide total of coronavirus cases surpassed 20 million, the United States remained the epicenter of infections and death.
The global total represented double the infections that had been reported as recently as late June. After the first coronavirus cases surfaced in China in December, it took about six months for the worldwide count to reach 10 million. Another 10 million cases have been detected in the past six weeks alone.
The United States continues to outstrip all other nations with a total count of more than 5 million cases, though infections are climbing in a number of nations that were largely unscathed earlier in the pandemic, including Colombia, Peru, Argentina and South Africa.
The global death toll now stands at more than 732,000 — a number that is almost certainly an undercount — and the head of the World Health Organization said the tally is expected to surpass 750,000 this week.
At least 160,000 Americans have died of covid-19, the disease caused by the virus, a number that continues to grow by the hour.
Of the 1,282 U.S. deaths reported Tuesday, Florida and Georgia recorded their highest single-day death tolls since the start of the pandemic, with 277 and 122, respectively, according to a data analysis by The Washington Post. Tuesday marked the first time Georgia has exceeded 100 deaths in a day and its highest reported seven-day average.
Texas and California also ranked among the deadliest counts with 220 and 109 dead, respectively. Wisconsin surpassed 1,000 coronavirus-related deaths since the state’s first reported death in mid-March.
Aside from Georgia exceeding its average death count, Puerto Rico, Tennessee, North Dakota, Montana and West Virginia tied for their highest seven-day death averages, a metric that is considered more accurate than daily figures. The United States’ seven-day average for deaths was 1,052.
In 16 states and Puerto Rico, the seven-day death average as of Tuesday rose from the previous week, indicating a growing trend in more than a quarter of the country. Washington and North Dakota tied for the biggest increase in average deaths.
At the same time, the virus continued to upend the rhythms and traditions of daily life throughout the United States.
The Big Ten on Tuesday became the first major college football conference to call off its fall season because of the coronavirus pandemic, and the Pacific-12 followed shortly after. The conferences, whose moves affect all of the fall sports they sponsor, said they would evaluate the possibility of playing in the spring.
President Trump continued to push for college football to go on, saying that canceling the season would be a “tragic mistake.”
“Get out there and play football. People want to see it,” Trump said at a White House news conference late Tuesday. “These are young, strong people,” he added of the players, insisting most would encounter few problems with the virus.
Meanwhile, hundreds of students and dozens of teachers in a recently reopened north Georgia school district have been told to quarantine due to possible exposure to the coronavirus.
In the six days the Cherokee County School District has been in session, administrators have directed at least 826 students and 42 teachers to quarantine, according to an online tally. The district requires face coverings for teachers when social distancing is not possible. It does not mandate masks for students, though they are “encouraged.”
“As made clear in our reopening of school plan, we anticipated positive tests among students and staff could occur, which is why we put a system into place to quickly contact trace, mandate quarantines, notify parents and report cases and quarantines to the entire community,” Cherokee spokeswoman Barbara Jacoby told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. “We are not hesitating to quarantine students and staff who have had possible exposure — even if the positive test was prompted by possible exposure rather than symptoms.”
The news comes as schools nationwide grapple with how to safely start the school year amid the pandemic. Some have announced in-person classes only to reverse course, while others say their plans remain in flux.
When public schools start back up in Ohio, more than one-third of students will be in classrooms five days a week, Gov. Mike DeWine (R) said as he announced the state’s current reopening model during a news conference Tuesday.
DeWine said 325 school districts, or about 38 percent of the state’s public school student population, will reopen to full-time, in-person learning. One quarter of the state’s public schools will start the year with full-time remote learning, while another quarter will pursue a hybrid approach mixing some days of in-person learning with virtual coursework. A handful of districts are still deciding which approach to take.
“I think our schools are doing a very good job getting ready for in-person or virtual schooling or both,” DeWine said. The governor encouraged people to continue wearing masks and being vigilant about health protocols such as social distancing, cautioning that “whatever is going on in their communities will be reflected in the schools.”
Although DeWine signaled his confidence in local officials to determine the best school reopening model for their communities, he noted that the percentage of the state’s new coronavirus cases from school-age children has grown steadily since the start of the pandemic. Ohioans 19 and younger now account for nearly 13 percent of the state’s new cases, compared with less than 2.5 percent in March.
At his news conference Tuesday evening, Trump once again touted his administration’s response to the coronavirus pandemic, saying he was confident that cases would decline and that the nation’s battered economy would soon come roaring back to life, even as millions of Americans remain unemployed.
Trump also said that “tremendous things are happening on the vaccine front,” pledging that “we’re going to get it delivered very rapidly.”
But it was another country’s pursuit of a coronavirus vaccine that generated headlines Tuesday. The Russian government’s recent claims of a medical breakthrough with the “Sputnik V” coronavirus vaccine have spurred intrigue around the world — and prompted skepticism from several U.S. health experts.
“I wouldn’t take it, certainly not outside a clinical trial right now,” former Food and Drug Administration commissioner Scott Gottlieb said Tuesday during an appearance on CNBC’s “Squawk Box.” Gottlieb noted that the Russian vaccine appears to have “only been tested in several hundred patients at most.”
U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar echoed Gottlieb’s sentiments and said safety should trump speed when it comes to vaccine development. “The point is not to be first with the vaccine,” Azar said on ABC’s “Good Morning America.” “The point is to have a vaccine that is safe and effective for the American people and the people of the world.”
Tuesday also brought reminders that the pandemic and its impacts are far from over, even in places where it has seemed under control.
New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Tuesday that the country had confirmed four new coronavirus cases, ending a more than 100-day streak without recording any community transmission.
Auckland will move to impose new restrictions as officials assess the threat, Ardern said, and asked residents to stay home and take precautions. Aucklanders have been asked to wear masks when accessing essential services, while the rest of the country is asked to wear a face covering in places where social distancing is hard to practice.
The first new confirmed case is a person in their 50s who has no history of international travel. All members of the family household were tested, and three more out of six tested positive.
Britain, like the United States, has continued to face crippling joblessness as the pandemic drags on. The employment level has fallen by 730,000 people since the pandemic began, according to data released Tuesday by its Office for National Statistics.
From April to June, employment decreased by 220,000, its steepest drop in over a decade, with younger people and older workers age 65 and above among the hardest hit, along with manual laborers.
The most recent statistics show the total number of employed workers fell by another 114,000 people in July — even though lockdown restrictions are being lifted and the country is attempting to return to normal by reopening shops and restaurants.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/us-coronavirus-deaths-once-again-top-1000-a-day-as-florida-georgia-hit-records/2020/08/11/c3748a10-dbfb-11ea-8051-d5f887d73381_story.html


#5
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 12.08.2020
Заглавие: No one wins a vaccine race if public confidence is lost


By Editorial Board
August 12, 2020
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT Vladimir Putin may have pulled off a good public relations stunt on Tuesday, at least for the short term. He announced that the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology is first in the world to win approval for a coronavirus vaccine. The announcement of the new Sputnik V vaccine recalled the glory of the Soviet Union’s pioneering orbital satellite. Let’s hope it works, but given the unknowns, Mr. Putin’s showy launch and promise of rapid distribution are reason for worry.
Opinions to start the day, in your inbox. Sign up.
Along with the difficulty of creating an effective vaccine and the challenges of testing, manufacturing and distributing it, it is essential to build and maintain public confidence so enough people will accept inoculation to create herd immunity against the virus, perhaps two-thirds of a population. Many experimental vaccines are likely to fail in research or clinical trials; this is science at work. But that makes it doubly important that confidence not be shaken by hasty or unnecessary political mistakes.
The Russian Sputnik V vaccine has so far been tested in trials with a small number of people; the institute planned to use only 38 volunteers. No data has been published. Russia said next will be a larger trial of 2,000 people. This is well short of the rigorous Phase 3 clinical trials with tens of thousands of people that are established practice in the U.S. and European vaccine regulatory systems. If something goes wrong — serious side effects or inability to block the virus or mitigate symptoms — Mr. Putin’s glory-seeking will dissolve into mass disappointment.
Full coverage of the coronavirus pandemic
Vaccine hesitancy is on the rise around the world, propelled in part by an irresponsible anti-vaccine movement that spreads suspicion and conspiracy theories, often on social media. In a Gallup Poll survey taken July 20 to Aug. 2, only 65 percent of those questioned said they would take a coronavirus vaccine, while 35 percent said they would not. Compare that with real-world behavior: In the United States, 91.5 percent of children aged 19 to 35 months get the measles, mumps and rubella shot; 92.7 percent get immunized against polio. Interestingly, Gallup points out that when adults were asked in 1954 about the then-new polio vaccine, just 60 percent said they would take it, while 31 percent said they would not.
The Trump administration’s crash vaccine effort — Operation Warp Speed — gives rise to worry that someone might try to cut corners in advance of the November election. Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Stephen M. Hahn pledged in these pages recently that approval will be “based solely on good science and data.” Dr. Hahn must remain on guard against the kind of White House pressure that was applied on behalf of hydroxychloroquine.
To have any hope of beating the pandemic, vaccine development must retain public confidence. A slip-up that creates even a ripple of doubt could have catastrophic consequences.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/global-opinions/no-one-wins-a-vaccine-race-if-public-confidence-is-lost/2020/08/12/67420504-dcc5-11ea-809e-b8be57ba616e_story.html


#6
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 24.08.2020
Заглавие: China says it began public use of coronavirus vaccine a month ago, bypassing clinical trials


By Eva Dou
August 24, 2020
China is claiming the dubious honor of the first nation to roll out an experimental coronavirus vaccine for public use, saying it began inoculating high-risk groups in late July.
For those keeping score, that would put Beijing’s civilian rollout three weeks earlier than Russia’s, with neither vaccine having yet passed standard clinical trials. Beijing health officials said Saturday they began dosing some medical workers and state-owned enterprise employees with an experimental coronavirus vaccine in late July under “urgent use” protocols.
Officials around the world have been debating how far they should suspend ordinary drug-development protocols to get coronavirus vaccines and treatments to market. Many governments declared early on that they would not cut corners in developing a vaccine, but they are proving amenable in practice to corner-cutting as the pandemic’s human and economic tolls mount.
The Beijing announcement followed a diplomatic controversy last week, when Papua New Guinea said it had turned back a group of Chinese miners who had received an experimental coronavirus vaccine.
There were signs of impatience in the White House as Beijing trumpeted its vaccine rollout over the weekend. President Trump tweeted Saturday alleging that either the Food and Drug Administration or the “deep state” was delaying progress for a U.S. coronavirus vaccine, without providing substantiating detail. On Sunday, Trump touted the FDA’s emergency authorization of convalescent plasma as a treatment for covid-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus.
The standard approval process for a new vaccine takes years and requires the observation of large numbers of patients over time to ensure safety and efficacy. The United States and China have both pledged to bring vaccines to market by the end of this year or early 2021, an unprecedented speed that requires gargantuan factory investments before the vaccines have passed safety tests. Now Beijing and Moscow have pushed the timeline up further, with large numbers of citizens essentially being asked to serve as test subjects as an act of patriotism.
On Chinese state TV on Saturday, Zheng Zhongwei, head of China’s coronavirus vaccine development program, said that “urgent use” of Sinopharm trial vaccines were launched on July 22, with initial use for medical workers and some state-owned enterprises. This came a month after China’s military began inoculating troops with an experimental vaccine.
Authorities are considering expanding the inoculations this fall to employees of food markets, transport systems and service industries, he said.
“In order to prevent the disease spread in the fall and winter, we are considering a moderate expansion in the program,” he said. “The purpose would be to first build an immunity barrier among special groups in the population.”
This month, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced that his country was the first to approve a vaccine for the coronavirus. In response to critics who questioned the safety of the fast-tracked vaccine, Putin said his own daughter has received it.
Personal testimonials of experimental treatments by top officials are not typically part of the drug-discovery process. But it has happened repeatedly in the pandemic, as countries’ leaders try to shore up morale with few tools at hand.
In China, the head of the country’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention and prominent executives have announced they have received experimental doses of a coronavirus vaccine. And in the United States, Trump has touted his use of hydroxychloroquine.
One point that remains unexplained is why China chose to delay its announcement of the public rollout of a trial vaccine for a full month. It could reflect caution among authorities, as a quiet rollout would be easier to end if those inoculated reported severe side effects.
On Saturday, Chinese health officials said few people who were given the experimental vaccine so far had reported adverse effects, and none reported fevers. They did not give a number of how many have received the trial vaccines.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/asia_pacific/china-coronavirus-vaccine-bypass-clinical-trials/2020/08/24/1813779a-e5be-11ea-bf44-0d31c85838a5_story.html


#7
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 03.09.2020
Заглавие: Why vaccine nationalism is winning


By Adam Taylor
Reporter 
September 3, 2020
Governments have failed to unite in the fight against covid-19. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the race to develop a vaccine against the novel coronavirus. Rather than consolidate efforts, many countries are striking out on their own.
The fragmented forces of vaccine nationalism won another victory this week: U.S. officials told The Washington Post that the United States would not participate in the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access (Covax) Facility, a global effort to help develop and distribute a coronavirus vaccine backed by the World Health Organization.
The U.S. absence is a major blow for a project seeking to overcome unequal access to immunization. More than 170 countries are in talks to participate in Covax. Germany, Japan and the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, have backed it.
But America is not alone in going it alone. Following the U.S. example, many other countries are pursuing unilateral plans, focused on producing a vaccine for priority use or buying up potential vaccines from other nations.
White House spokesman Judd Deere said Tuesday the United States would not be “constrained by multilateral organizations influenced by the corrupt World Health Organization and China.” Instead, the Trump administration has doubled down on Operation Warp Speed, its multibillion-dollar effort to administer a domestic vaccine as early as the fall.
Russia, too, has rejected the Covax plan. Instead, it is already rolling out its Sputnik V vaccine, which it has dubbed the “the first registered vaccine against COVID-19,” for teachers and health-care workers — despite warnings that it was rushed through testing.
In China, where the People’s Liberation Army has played a central role in the development of vaccines, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said Wednesday that Beijing supported the aims of Covax and would coordinate with it. But she stopped short of making a commitment to the project.
Covax’s backers say they are still optimistic, pointing to support from other rich nations. But with deadlines extended and terms shifting, the project may not end up being quite what many had envisaged.
It’s worth considering why vaccine nationalism seems to be winning. Cooperative, international efforts are not famous for finding speedy solutions. Some countries probably reason that they could join Covax later if it succeeds.
And if a country develops a working vaccine domestically or preemptively buys up millions of doses, it gets first access. For some wealthy nations, the benefits outweigh the risks or moral problems.
The United States has already invested $10 billion in candidate vaccines, according to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, a relative bargain compared to the trillions of dollars spent on financial bailouts so far, and one with the potential to affect the dynamics of the upcoming presidential election.
If a country can develop a vaccine, it also has the opportunity to distribute it. For China, the initial epicenter of the pandemic, it would be a chance to restore global standing. The same could be argued for Russia and the United States, both run by leaders who are unpopular globally.
Some nations may struggle to navigate this rocky geopolitical terrain. Mexico, for example, is pushing ahead with a plan to not only cooperate with the Covax program, but to ally itself with programs in foreign nations from Cuba to France, Deputy Foreign Minister Martha Delgado told Reuters.
By some reckonings, the vaccine rivalry is healthy, perhaps even ideal. “Competition between nations has, historically, often driven innovation. That was certainly true of the Cold War space race. Or the scientific breakthroughs — from radar to rockets — of World War II,” Matthew Lynn wrote for the Spectator this week.
Most who study vaccines do not share this view. The space race may have led to “one giant leap for mankind” on the Moon, but few forget that the astronaut who took the step was American. It’s not hard to see how poorer nations could be left behind in the vaccine race, too.
The Wall Street Journal reported Tuesday that a handful of rich nations had already struck deals for nearly 4 billion doses of coronavirus vaccines in development, taking up almost all of the world’s capacity and leaving little for poor nations, despite the rapid spread of the virus in the developing world.
The supply problems have only begun. “Vaccine supply chains contain some unusual links, including horseshoe crab blood, shark liver oil and an enzyme that’s one of the world’s most expensive products,” economists Scott Duke Kominers and Alex Tabarrok wrote for Bloomberg last month. “Other links rely on novel manufacturing processes that have not yet been implemented at scale.”
Immunization programs have a mixed success rate. Smallpox was eradicated with the help of a successful vaccine, but polio and measles still linger despite working vaccines. The huge number of cases globally and the “novel” nature of the coronavirus would complicate eradication efforts. Rushed, potentially faulty vaccines would have the potential to strengthen anti-vaccination movements.
Covax is one hope for dealing with some of these problems, but an imperfect one. It requires wealthy nations to put up about $18 billion in purchases for about a dozen experimental vaccines, with the aim to ensure first access for the world’s most vulnerable. Under the plan, nations could still make bilateral deals if they wanted to.
But the United States and others still rejected the plan, essentially betting on Operation Warp Speed or other national measures. In an interview this month with IAVI Report, a scientific magazine on virus research, vaccine expert Seth Berkley, the chief executive of GAVI and one of the backers of Covax, said he worried about a world in which governments provide vaccines for their own people alone.
“If you have massive outbreaks of virus circulating, adapting to humans, mutating, and then spreading, you’re never going to solve this,” he said.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2020/09/03/why-coronavirus-vaccine-nationalism-is-winning/


#8
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 04.09.2020
Заглавие: Trump’s rush for a covid vaccine could make it less likely to work


By Jennifer Reich
and Seth Masket
September 4, 2020
President Trump clearly sees the coronavirus pandemic as a threat to his reelection and wants to show that he is making progress against it. He promised at the Republican National Convention to “produce a vaccine before the end of the year, or maybe even sooner,” boasting: “Nobody thought it could be done this fast. Normally it would be years, and we did it in a matter of a few months. We are producing them in advance so hundreds of millions of doses can be quickly available. We have a safe and effective vaccine this year, and together we will crush the virus.” 
Opinions to start the day, in your inbox. Sign up.
The Food and Drug Administration is considering whether to allow a vaccine against the coronavirus to be used on an emergency basis before its formal approval process is finished, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has told states to be ready to distribute doses by Nov. 1 — two days before the election. 
But wanting a vaccine to be ready by the time the polls open and getting one that is safe, effective and accepted by the American people are two very different things. And the Trump administration’s attempts to make government agency leaders support the president’s political positions this year have undermined public trust in the very institutions needed to evaluate and distribute the immunizations. Now the same impulses that have led Trump to downplay the virus and latch onto imagined miracle cures could also get in the way of an effective vaccine. 
Trump is right that the creation and mass distribution of a vaccine within a year of the discovery of the disease it prevents would be unprecedented — most vaccines take years to develop, test and administer. That typical time frame isn’t due to lack of effort. Long-standing scientific protocols require a great deal of testing over a long period to ensure that a vaccine is safe, with minimal side effects, if any; and effective, meaning it actually stops the disease, limits its spread or reduces its severity. Short-circuiting that process can be wasteful or even dangerous: A rushed vaccine for the swine flu in 1976 meant to help President Gerald Ford’s election campaign not only proved ineffective but also afflicted hundreds with a paralyzing side effect.  
Even if a vaccine is proved to be safe and effective, rolling out a new one correctly is no small thing. It requires lots of coordination across multiple state and federal agencies that play a pivotal role in evaluating the science behind it, as well as among academia and the public and private sectors. All that requires public trust. If millions of Americans are going to voluntarily agree to have someone inject something into them to prevent a disease they don’t already have, they need to have faith in the agencies that put the effort together and in the government backing it. So for the vaccine to appear in such short time and for Trump to get the credit, he’ll need people to trust the experts at the FDA, the CDC and other regulatory agencies he has spent so much of his presidency publicly denigrating or undermining. Given the usual time required for developing a vaccine — which includes enrolling tens of thousands of volunteers to receive two doses of the vaccine or a placebo a month apart and then waiting to see if they become infected — and the fact that Trump has delegitimized so much of that process, producing a vaccine that a large share of Americans are willing to trust and receive does not seem realistic for the fall. 
Infect us with the coronavirus. It could speed up a vaccine.
That might become a problem if Trump pushes the FDA to use its emergency powers. Since 2004, the agency has been authorized to permit the use of an unapproved and unproven medical product during a declared emergency related to an infectious disease. To receive authorization, a vaccine or drug should seem effective, but its efficacy doesn’t definitively need to be proved. For example, a vaccine could generate an immune response, but it might not prevent infection or serious illness. This is a much lower bar. Rather than going through the usual process of consulting panels of experts, the FDA chief alone is able to make this determination — and Commissioner Stephen Hahn has already signaled that he is willing to do so as soon as Oct. 22.  
That was how the FDA authorized the emergency use of hydroxychloroquine against the coronavirus earlier this year. Despite hopes that this medication would help those hospitalized with covid-19, recently published randomized studies show that the drug does not improve outcomes and may actually cause harm, including an increased risk of death in some. The process by which it was approved has also led many to see the FDA as newly politicized. A whistleblower complaint from Rick Bright, a former director of the federal government agency that oversees drug and vaccine development, suggests that experts within the government were pressured “to invest in drugs, vaccines, and other technologies without proper scientific vetting or that lacked scientific merit” but that were “promoted by those with political connections.” When he refused, he was removed from his post. Despite studies showing that hydroxychloroquine does not work, Trump has continued to insist that it is safe and effective, citing his own preventive use as evidence.  
Past attempts to distribute unlicensed vaccines and therapeutics through emergency means have often been unsuccessful, undermining trust. Postal workers who were offered an emergency anthrax vaccine in 2001 became wary of the government’s shifting guidelines and rationales, and many refused. There was similar resistance to vaccinations during the H1N1 flu pandemic in 2009. In addition to hydroxychloroquine, the recent emergency-use authorization of convalescent plasma and Hahn’s exaggerated (and later recanted) claims that plasma could save 35 out of 100 covid-19 patients have raised new concerns about the politicization of scientific safety and the rigor of review processes.  
Trump could also follow the examples set by Russia and China and simply claim that a vaccine exists without any determination by the FDA or another federal agency. Russian scientists announced their vaccine, with minimal testing for safety or effectiveness, earlier this summer (though a study published in the Lancet this past week indicated that initial trials showed it was safe and did stimulate immune response); China is also promising a rapidly developed vaccine and is reportedly giving it to military personnel without completing large-scale safety or efficacy tests. Just as Trump has repeatedly and aggressively promoted the use of hydroxychloroquine, even after the FDA revoked its authorization, he could claim that some other drug — perhaps a vaccine undergoing testing in the United States, or an untested and possibly poisonous remedy like oleandrin, touted by donor Mike Lindell, which Trump has said he will “look at” — is effective and should be taken by everyone. That doesn’t mean the government will start distributing these products, but simply declaring that they exist could be enough to convince some voters that Trump has solved the coronavirus  problem. 
I just got a shot of a coronavirus vaccine. I hope it works!
Politicizing a vaccine and the scientific agencies that work on it, though, would hurt the United States’ long-term response to the pandemic. Democrats and medical experts, who are currently more predisposed to use a vaccine, could distrust it; conservative media personalities and GOP elected officials might promote it, even as surveys consistently show that Republicans are least likely to take a coronavirus vaccine. Some conspiracy-minded conservatives might demand access to the promised vaccine and, finding it largely unavailable, claim that there’s a plot to keep them unhealthy. (Those who will reject the vaccine based on suspicions of collusion between government and Big Pharma will probably make the same claims.)  
Pundits, activists and others might encourage questions about a vaccine, emphasize personal choice over mandates and take a cautious approach. Those concerned about America’s competitiveness could question why the United States is not also cutting corners in testing to keep up with rival nations. The U.S. refusal to join a coalition of more than 170 other countries to coordinate vaccine distribution further illustrates this impulse. This has the potential to be an additional public health disaster, undermining what bipartisan trust still exists in the nation’s disease-fighting infrastructure and making it even harder to administer a legitimate vaccine should one become available.  
In the end, a safe and effective vaccine against this virus may be developed and taken by enough Americans to shrink the pandemic to manageable levels. But medical research does not operate well on politically imposed deadlines. If this effort is going to be successful, it will need to be done in a way that builds on public trust in science and government, rather than falling into existing partisan divisions. 
When Russia announced that it had a vaccine ready, it named the project Sputnik V, after the satellite the Soviet Union launched in 1957, kicking off the space race. In 1961, President John F. Kennedy announced an ambitious plan to send a man to the moon, inspired by the pressure he felt to catch up. He appeared in front of Congress to request investment in space but acknowledged that there were no quick wins in science, noting that the enterprise would “last for many years and carry very heavy costs,” and making clear that “it would be better not to go at all” if the United States was not “prepared to do the work and bear the burdens to make it successful.” The international race for a vaccine is no different. A vaccine will succeed only if Americans across the political spectrum trust that it is the result of careful and cautious scientific work. And that will probably not be completed until long after the November election. 
 https://www.washingtonpost.com/outlook/trump-covid-vaccine-science/2020/09/04/5c22d02a-ee33-11ea-ab4e-581edb849379_story.html


#9
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 10.09.2020
Заглавие: The AstraZeneca vaccine trial was paused to investigate an unexplained case of spinal inflammation. 


The major trial “is on hold as an independent committee investigates whether a case of spinal inflammation in a single British participant is linked to the vaccine — a step that several experts said is a sign of the protections in place to ensure the safety of products ultimately used in millions of healthy people,” Carolyn Johnson reports. National Institutes of Health Director Francis Collins and other scientists “pointed to AstraZeneca’s decision as evidence that scientists, rather than politicians, are running the process. The experts said that it was hard to estimate how long the investigation would take, but that the pause was not unexpected in trials of this size and scale."
A group of scientists questioned whether the early-stage trials for the Russian vaccine known as “Sputnik V” can be considered reliable due to “highly unlikely” patterns presented in the results. Last week, the medical journal Lancet said the vaccine produced an antibody response and no serious side effects in more than 70 participants during early trials. But a collective of 26 scientists pointed out that multiple test subjects were reporting identical antibody tests. (Teo Armus)
More than 70 professors at Stanford University’s medical school pushed back on what they say are “falsehoods and misrepresentations of science” pushed by their former colleague, Scott Atlas, who has emerged as one of Trump’s top medical advisers. Atlas, a neuroradiologist by training, has reportedly advocated for a controversial “herd immunity” strategy. The approach, which has already begun to take root in the Trump administration's testing strategy, would result in “a significant increase in preventable cases, suffering and deaths, especially among vulnerable populations,” the Stanford doctors warn in a letter. (Armus) 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/09/10/daily-202-unlike-2016-trumps-supreme-court-shortlist-could-galvanize-left-more-than-right/


# 10
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 18.09.2020
Заглавие: China and Russia are ahead in the global coronavirus vaccine race, bending long-standing rules as they go
By Eva Dou
and 
Isabelle Khurshudyan


September 18, 2020
SEOUL — China and Russia have begun a mass rollout of their coronavirus vaccines before clinical tests are complete, in what is emerging as an unexpectedly complex geopolitical challenge for the United States.
China's Sinopharm announced this week that it would provide emergency doses of one of its two trial vaccines to the United Arab Emirates, prioritizing the U.S. ally over the vast majority of Chinese. China is now the sole supplier of coronavirus vaccine to the Middle East.
Meanwhile, Russia's sovereign wealth fund signed a deal this week to supply India with 100 million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine.
These moves have thrown Western policymakers off balance. American health-care experts say the United States should not rush out its own vaccine in response. But that leaves China and Russia as the only countries wielding this valuable diplomatic tool for potentially months to come.
The upshot is that by next year, China and Russia may have purchased significant geopolitical power by having bent the rules and rushed out their vaccines. It is also possible their vaccines may fail, at enormous human cost.
“It’s really insane and a terrible idea,” Arthur Caplan, head of the division of medical ethics at New York University’s Grossman School of Medicine, said of China and Russia not waiting for the results of Phase 3 trials. “It’s staggeringly hard to comprehend.”
Kirill Dmitriev, head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, which bankrolled Russia’s vaccine efforts, said Russia’s decision to roll out Sputnik V before the completion of Phase 3 trials has been validated by other countries now doing the same.
“The criticism was that you cannot register a vaccine before Phase 3,” Dmitriev said. “But after this, China registered a vaccine, the UAE registered a vaccine before completion of Phase 3, and both Britain and the U.S. said publicly they’re considering registering a vaccine before Phase 3. So this part of the criticism is gone.”
In recent days, President Trump has pressed for faster release of an American vaccine, while U.S. pharmaceutical companies have resisted the idea of taking a shortcut around long-established safety protocols.
Hundreds of thousands of people in China, including diplomats, the military, front-line health workers and employees of state-owned enterprises, have received Sinopharm’s vaccines under urgent-use stipulations, according to state media reports last week. But even as the rest of the country awaits access, Beijing has begun deploying vaccines abroad to regions where it is seeking to expand its influence.
Aside from the UAE collaboration, Sinopharm is also running Phase 3 trials in Jordan and Bahrain.
Egypt announced on Sept. 11 that it will also begin trials with Sinopharm, three days after the British-Swedish drugmaker AstraZeneca paused its clinical trial because of a “potentially unexplained illness.” The trial has since resumed, although not in the United States. Egypt signed a deal with AstraZeneca in July to purchase 30 million doses of its vaccine.
Caplan said of these geopolitical dynamics: “Yeah, it’s a problem.”
Officials in Moscow said this week that initial doses of the Sputnik V vaccine have been delivered to all regions of Russia, with health-care workers and teachers the first to receive access.
India, Brazil, Mexico and Kazakhstan have agreed to purchase Sputnik V.
China says it began public use of coronavirus vaccine, bypassing clinical trials
For China, the moves represent an enormous gamble. As the country where the novel coronavirus originated, it has sought to make amends and blunt international fury. But some of its earlier efforts ended up backfiring, such as when batches of masks and other personal protective equipment exported from China were found to be defective.
The stakes are far higher with vaccines. Physicians say there is a risk of rare but severe side effects that do not present in small-scale trials, which is why large-scale Phase 3 trials are usually conducted for months before a vaccine is approved for sale. Safety issues could also emerge because of rushed manufacturing.
But if China’s bet pays off — if its vaccines prove to be safe and effective — it could cement its lead over the West in economic recovery in 2021, while also using the vaccine as a powerful diplomatic tool.
Picking winners
Even as China and Russia speed ahead with vaccine deployment, there will not be enough doses for everyone, necessitating decisions about who gets priority. Both countries estimate they can produce enough vaccine in the first year for a fraction of their populations.
Last week, Zhou Song, a Sinopharm executive, told state radio that the company expected an initial output of 300 million doses a year. At two doses per person, that would cover a tenth of China’s population. The vaccines will be more broadly available in December, he said.
China has a total of four vaccine candidates in Phase 3 testing, and their makers have scattered across the world to run trials. Executives have explained that China has so few coronavirus cases that it is hard to run the trials at home.
But this overseas testing has also been diplomatically expedient for Beijing, as it is essentially an early-access pass to vaccines that China can offer developing nations. Countries that have signed up to run Phase 3 trials of Chinese coronavirus vaccines include Argentina, Bahrain, Brazil, Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan, Morocco, Peru, Russia, Saudi Arabia and the UAE.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund said it expects to have 30 million doses produced in Russia by the end of the year — enough for roughly 20 percent of the population.
But while the domestically produced doses of Sputnik V will be reserved for Russians, the investment fund plans to manufacture larger quantities of the vaccine abroad for international sale.
Russian Health Minister Mikhail Murashko told the state-run Tass news agency this week that of the announced 40,000 volunteers for Phase 3 trials, more than 300 had been vaccinated so far. That does not include the health-care workers or teachers who volunteered for vaccination, and it was unclear how many have done so.
Murashko added that the vaccine will be more widely available to the general population in late November or December. Russia’s Health Ministry did not respond to a request for comment.
CDC director says coronavirus vaccines won’t be widely available till the middle of next year
Searching for volunteers
Officials in Beijing and Moscow say that all recipients of the vaccines have been volunteers and that the vaccines are safe.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said his daughter has taken Sputnik V. In China, Sinopharm’s Zhou told state media, without providing substantiating data, that of the hundreds of thousands of vaccine doses that have been administered, there has not been “a single case of obvious adverse reaction or a single case of infection.”
But both countries have heavy controls over speech. Many of the expressions of concern have been oblique, unlike in the United States, where there has been debate over the safety of the vaccines.
Speaking to state media last week, Zhou acknowledged there were public worries about vaccine safety. The vaccine is not yet indicated for use by pregnant or breastfeeding women, he added, given the lack of research for those demographics.
Vaccine safety scandals are prevalent in China. Surveys have shown high levels of public skepticism, with one 2019 study reporting that 70 percent of respondents did not have vaccine confidence.
In Russia, an August poll found that 54 percent of the more than 1,600 respondents said they were not ready to volunteer for vaccination, according to the independent Levada Center.
Semyon Galperin, head of the Doctors’ Defense League rights group, said some doctors are concerned they could be pressured into vaccination. Russia’s Medvestnik medical news website reported this week on a proposal by the Health Ministry to withhold from health-care workers long-promised bonuses for treating coronavirus patients if they decline vaccination.
Leigh Turner, an associate professor at the University of Minnesota’s Center for Bioethics, said the rushed rollouts in both countries and top-down emergency-use plans raise questions about informed consent by the early recipients.
“When you have reports, for example, that members of the military are being administered something, to me that can raise questions of: Are these individuals really able to refuse?” he said.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/asia_pacific/china-and-russia-are-ahead-in-the-global-coronavirus-vaccine-race-bending-long-standing-rules-as-they-go/2020/09/18/9bfd4438-e2d4-11ea-82d8-5e55d47e90ca_story.html


#11
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 04.10.2020
Заглавие: In race for coronavirus vaccine, Russia ramps up rhetoric to defend Sputnik V


By Isabelle Khurshudyan
October 4, 2020
MOSCOW — Included in Russian President Vladimir Putin's speech at the United Nations last month was an offer: All U.N. staff could receive Russia's Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine, free of charge.
Russia’s race to be first with a credible vaccine is also an exercise in the science of state-run spin.
Nationalism has inevitably crept into the breakneck vaccine stakes. President Trump used Tuesday’s debate to tout U.S. pharmaceutical companies in the vaccine hunt and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson donned a white lab coat during a mid-September tour of an Oxford lab seeking a vaccine.
Russia, too, had turned up the patriotic volume along with the vaccine push. In a promotional video that was part of the rollout for Sputnik V — whose name itself taps into the pride of the Soviet Union being first out of the blocks in the Cold War’s space race with a satellite in 1957 — the vaccine is portrayed circling a coronavirus-infected earth, wiping out the disease as it goes.
In this promotional video, the Sputnik V vaccine is portrayed as the world’s first satellite circling a covid-infected earth, wiping out the disease as it goes. (Russian Direct Investment Fund)
Now that the global competition is heating up — 10 possible vaccines are undergoing Phase 3 testing, according to the World Health Organization — Russia has further amped up its rhetoric around Sputnik V.
CDC’s credibility is being eroded by internal blunders and external attacks
Russia is now going on the offensive.
The Kremlin-directed campaign to promote Sputnik V has largely dismissed any criticism — especially claims that Russia is cutting corners on safety — as anti-Russian smears. Meanwhile, Russian officials are attempting to cast doubt on rival vaccine hunters with unsupported assertions, such as making claims that Western approaches to find a vaccine are less effective and riskier.
In August, Putin announced that Russia registered the world’s first coronavirus vaccine, even before the start of Phase 3 large-scale clinical trials. That day, he said one of his two daughters received the prospective vaccine and experienced only mild symptoms — a startling disclosure since he rarely mentions his children in public.
On Wednesday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Putin “is thinking” about getting vaccinated himself.
China and Russia are ahead in the global coronavirus vaccine race, bending long-standing rules as they go
“This is not a gentlemanly stroll in the park by a bunch of people who all agree that there’s some common public good we all need to strive for,” said J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Center on Global Health Policy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “This has become a geopolitical race, and it’s one that’s seen as tied to domestic stability and support amid lots of adversity.”
'Like propaganda'
The Russian Direct Investment Fund, which bankrolled the country’s vaccination effort, has frequently hailed Sputnik V’s delivery system: two doses to carry different, harmless cold viruses, or human adenoviruses. They have been engineered in hopes of carrying cells of the gene for the coronavirus.
Russia claims it has a covid-19 vaccine, raising alarm from global health officials
Russia claims its "Sputnik V" vaccine works even though it has not undergone Phase 3, the vaccine testing phase used before receiving regulatory approval. (The Washington Post)
The investment fund’s head, Kirill Dmitriev, has taken aim at other labs seeking a vaccine using adenoviruses from monkeys or messenger RNA.
After Oxford University and pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca resumed their coronavirus vaccine trial following a week-long pause because of an unexplained illness in a trial participant, Dmitriev issued a comment that he was “delighted” trials resumed. Unlike Sputnik V, their vaccine uses a cold virus from a monkey rather than a human.
“At the same time, the suspension of trials clearly showed the fallacy of the approach, when entire countries exclusively rely on novel and untested platforms when choosing a vaccine for widespread use,” Dmitriev’s statement continued.
Morrison said Dmitriev’s comments “sound like propaganda.”
“Trying to bad-mouth other competitors’ vaccines seems like a little bit of rowdy behavior,” Morrison said.
Sputnik V is undergoing Phase 3 testing with 40,000 volunteers, but the production rights for millions of doses have already been sold to several countries, including India, Brazil and Mexico.
In another move to show confidence in the potential vaccine, Russia will shoulder some of the legal risks should anything go awry, Dmitriev said, rather than seeking full indemnity as many other vaccine-makers have sought.
The covid-19 recession in U.S. is the most unequal in history
That could be an international selling point for Russia compared to vaccine candidates that use a similar technology, such as ones from pharmaceutical giant Johnson & Johnson and the Chinese company CanSino Biologics.
“Countries have a choice to make, and we think they’ll focus on a portfolio of different vaccines,” Dmitriev said. “But we’re absolutely sure that a human adenovirus vaccine will be in the portfolio of most countries.”
Domestic skepticism
But for all of Russia’s efforts to convince its international skeptics, Sputnik V doesn’t have strong domestic support yet.
An August poll found that 54 percent of the more than 1,600 respondents said they were not ready to volunteer for vaccination, according to the independent Levada Center.
Russian Health Minister Mikhail Murashko told the state-run Tass news agency in September that Sputnik V will be more widely available to the general population in late November or December. 
Alexey Kuznetsov, an aide to Murashko, said in a statement that “voluntary vaccination of citizens at risk has begun: first of all, medical workers and teachers.” But the Health Ministry has declined to say how many teachers and front-line health-care workers have so far volunteered to receive Sputnik V.
Leonid Perlov, a 66-year-old who teaches geography in Moscow, said he was offered the potential vaccine but declined because it “has not passed all of the necessary stages of testing.”
“This is all premature,” he added.
But not for everyone. He noticed a divide among his colleagues — perhaps influenced by the Kremlin’s heavy emphasis on the possible vaccine as a symbol of national pride.
“The biology teachers are not in a hurry to get vaccinated,” Perlov noted. “They’re more cautious. But the history teachers are the ones who are ready to volunteer.”
After Russia’s daily ticker of confirmed new coronavirus cases showed steady decline over the summer, infections have started rising again to more than 8,000 per day, sparking local fear that another nationwide lockdown could soon follow.
The economy suffered from the closures in April and May, and Putin’s approval ratings consequently slumped. Russia may point to its vaccine as justification for avoiding a second round of strict restrictions.
Olga Demicheva, an endocrinologist in Moscow, said she volunteered to be a Phase 3 clinical trial participant for Sputnik V, but doesn’t believe that the possible vaccine should be available even for high-risk groups before that large-scale testing is completed.
Semyon Galperin, head of the Doctors’ Defense League rights group, opted for a similar compromise.
“My volunteering is to hopefully prevent a situation where there is some pressure on our [medical] colleagues to get vaccinated,” Galperin said. “Before the clinical trials are complete, we shouldn’t tell anyone to get vaccinated or not.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/coronavirus-vaccine-russia-sputnik/2020/10/03/83075a10-f380-11ea-8025-5d3489768ac8_story.html


#12
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 14.10.2020
Заглавие: Night on the town, Moscow style: Few masks, but lots of worry about another lockdown


By Isabelle Khurshudyan
October 14, 2020
At the Mendeleev Bar, the bouncers took our temperatures and then handed us face masks. We wore them as we entered. But inside, everyone except for the staff had shed their masks and crammed in for what they feared could be their last big night out.
“People are more afraid of a second lockdown than they are of the coronavirus,” said Kirill Khaustev, a bartender at Mendeleev.
That morning, Russia had announced more than 12,000 new coronavirus cases in the past day — a record increase for the country with the world’s fourth-largest number of cases. Then, on Tuesday, Russia set a record for daily deaths from the coronavirus with 244. On Wednesday, it was 239 deaths linked to the virus, and 14,200 new cases.
The autumn spike in infections in Russia had seemed inevitable. After a two-month spring lockdown with tight restrictions, there were practically no constraints over the summer. With the long Russian winter ahead, the prevailing mood in Moscow, at least, is to shrug off coronavirus anxieties for now and take what comes.
What’s reopened and what’s still restricted in 16 cities around the world
Mask requirements exist, but they’re rarely observed or enforced. While some establishments do temperature checks at the door, there’s no social distancing inside or limits on capacity.
The question I’m asked most often when catching up with friends and family in the United States: How has life in Moscow changed as a result of the coronavirus? In recent weeks, my response has been that I often feel like I’m living in an alternate reality from them. Maskless Moscow feels strangely normal.
Exhibit A: I went to the Black Sea resort city of Sochi last month for a vacation, and every single seat on the flight was occupied. Some passengers wore masks, but others didn’t — and weren’t asked to mask up by flight attendants.
It’s not that the pandemic has spared Russia. Just the opposite. But many Russians I encounter simply aren’t that concerned about contracting the virus.
What year is this?
I joined two friends on their regular Friday night bar crawl to get a sense of the “carry on like it’s 2019” mood in Moscow.
At Mendeleev, I met Valeria Varinik, who described the Russian mentality about the virus like this: “This is going to sound bad, but I’ve heard a lot of people just say that if you’re meant to be sick, then you will be, and if you’re not, then you won’t be.”
Moscow’s government has so far responded to the rise in infections with mild restrictions, asking citizens older than 65 to stay home and for companies to transfer at least 30 percent of their employees to remote work. Schools have also switched back to distance learning.
Russia unveils coronavirus vaccine ‘Sputnik V,’ claiming breakthrough in global race before final testing complete
But officials have been hesitant to even discuss the possibility of again closing nonessential businesses, likely fearing a public backlash. Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin, who took the lead on imposing stay-at-home measures in the spring, even came up with his own interpretations to avoid the “second wave” label.
“There is no second coronavirus wave because a second wave comes when those who have already recovered from the infection fall ill again. We don’t see anything like that,” he told state television this month.
With many Russians forced to self-isolate in April and May, President Vladimir Putin’s approval rating plummeted to a 20-year low of 59 percent, according to a May poll by the independent Levada Center. It has climbed back up 10 points in the four months since, when restrictions largely existed in name only. Perhaps not coincidentally, Russia lifted nearly all of its restrictions just before a nationwide vote this summer on constitutional amendments that could keep Putin in power until 2036.
Mask on, mask off
My friends said Mendeleev wasn’t handing its patrons masks the week before. As we were leaving, the people entering were also being handed gloves by the bouncer. In late September, authorities fined Tsum, the famed luxury department store in Moscow, for not making customers wear masks.
“If the government had done like countries in Europe and actually enforced restrictions from the beginning, maybe there wouldn’t have been a second wave,” said Evgeniy Evdokimov, who works at Brodo Bar and Kitchen, our third stop that Friday night. “Maybe this is just the Russian mentality, but we need measures to be strict or we won’t follow them.”
“The virus itself isn’t as scary as this situation we find ourselves in where we don’t know what’s going on, or if there’ll be another lockdown after months of nothing,” he added.
Evdokimov then asked me and my friends a question. Had we, in the past three months, witnessed a police officer tell a single person on public transportation to put on a mask or fine someone for not wearing one? We all shook our heads, though we’ve all seen Metro cars full of maskless individuals.
My observation was that masks are largely treated like a formality here. It’s something you wear to get through the door of a store, for example — and even that would be considered strict by Russian standards. Then many people just take them off or push them below their chin. 
To financially survive the spring lockdown, Evdokimov said, he had three jobs, sticking on price tags at a convenience store in the mornings, delivering food in the afternoons and then working as a copywriter for a YouTube channel in the evenings.
Evdokimov said he didn’t receive any state support. If there’s another lockdown, he figures he might have to temporarily move home to St. Petersburg.
In the meantime, business has been good. Evdokimov and others on that Friday night said it feels as if Moscow’s nightlife scene is livelier now than it was before the pandemic.
“I basically expected that,” said Khaustev, the bartender at Mendeleev. “I remember the first weekend bars opened, it was packed, and it was just nice to look people in the eye again and see how happy they were to be out of the house. We told them to keep half a meter apart, but they were just happy to be out again.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/coronavirus-moscow-masks-clubs/2020/10/14/26db88c6-07ce-11eb-8719-0df159d14794_story.html


#13
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 11.11.2020
Заглавие: Who will make coronavirus vaccines for the developing world? India holds the key.


By Joanna Slater
November 11, 2020
NEW DELHI — Adar Poonawalla is an Indian billionaire whose family-owned firm makes more vaccines a year than any other company on Earth. Ask him about the race for a coronavirus vaccine and he will offer some unvarnished opinions.
One prominent vaccine candidate requiring ultra-cold storage is “a joke” that will not work for the developing world. Anyone who declares how long a vaccine will confer immunity is talking “nonsense.” The world’s entire population will not be immunized until 2024, he says, contrary to rosier predictions.
Poonawalla is equally frank about the gamble his company, Serum Institute of India, is making in the pandemic. He is putting $250 million of his family’s fortune into a bid to ramp up manufacturing capacity to 1 billion doses through 2021.
“I decided to go all out,” said Poonawalla, 39. Among the initial skeptics: his father, Cyrus, the company’s founder. “He said: ‘Look, it’s your money. If you want to blow it up, fine.’ ”
It is a bet with global repercussions. In the quest for effective coronavirus vaccines, India is poised to play a critical role in supplying the developing world, which is starting the race with a distinct disadvantage.
Wealthy countries have already grabbed a major chunk of the available supply. The United States, the United Kingdom, Japan and Canada have struck deals large enough to vaccinate their entire populations. By contrast, a pooled global effort to distribute vaccines equitably to more than 150 countries — including dozens of low-income nations — has secured only 700 million doses.
Pfizer, which announced stellar early results for its vaccine candidate Monday, has struck very few deals to supply its product to developing countries. Pfizer’s vaccine must also be stored at ultra-low temperatures, a major challenge in much of the world.
The top coronavirus vaccines to watch
Rich nations are “all cutting in line and hoarding vaccine supply to immunize as many people as possible, even if this leaves other countries unable to immunize those at highest risk,” said Nicholas Lusiani, a senior adviser at Oxfam America, a nonprofit group devoted to fighting poverty.
Enter Indian vaccine makers, led by Serum Institute, the largest manufacturer in the world by volume. Well before the pandemic, India was a “vaccine powerhouse” specializing in affordable exports to low- and middle-income countries, said Andrea Taylor, an assistant director at the Duke Global Health Innovation Center.
Taylor said countries such as Brazil and China also have manufacturing capacity, but she singled out Indian vaccine makers because they moved so quickly to form tie-ups with global companies and increase their own production. India is “going to be the absolute star in the story,” she said.
Anthony S. Fauci, the top infectious-disease specialist in the United States, shared that sentiment during a panel earlier this year. India’s manufacturing capability is “going to be very, very important” as effective vaccines emerge, he said.
Four major pharmaceutical companies — AstraZeneca, Novavax, Johnson & Johnson and Sanofi — have reached agreements to eventually produce at least 3 billion vaccine doses for low- and middle-income countries, according to an analysis of publicly available data by Airfinity, a research firm in the United Kingdom. Serum Institute is set to manufacture more than two-thirds of those doses.
Some of the agreed-upon supply to low- and middle-income countries will come through the pooled initiative backed by the World Health Organization, known as the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access Facility, or Covax. Covax includes higher- and lower-income countries, more than 150 in total. The United States declined to join.
Covax is being co-led by Gavi, a nonprofit vaccine alliance. In September, Gavi announced a partnership with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to pay Serum Institute in advance for 200 million vaccine doses, at a cost of $3 each, to be distributed in developing countries, hopefully in early 2021. The $600 million infusion will help Serum ramp up production.
Gavi and the Gates Foundation “want to assure vaccine supply at an affordable price,” said Poonawalla, Serum’s chief executive. His aim, meanwhile, is to cover some of his costs. “At least my risk is taken away so I can sleep at night,” he said.
The partnership with Serum, given its size, is “crucial” to Gavi’s larger goal of ensuring that no country is left behind in the quest for vaccines, said Dominic Hein, who works on Gavi’s efforts to make vaccines more readily available in low-income countries.
Under the agreement, more than 60 countries — largely in Africa and Asia — would receive the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca or the vaccine under development by Novavax.
Serum Institute has struck deals to manufacture both vaccines, which are in Phase 3 trials. It has also inked deals to make two other vaccines, developed by the American biotechnology company Codagenix and Britain’s SpyBiotech, and is working on its own vaccine candidate that it hopes will enter trials late next year. While the Indian company has reached manufacturing agreements with American companies such as Novavax and Codagenix, it is not currently exporting its vaccines to the United States.
India has recorded the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the world — more than 8.5 million. Those numbers mean India is a crucial market for future vaccines and an effective place to test them.
Advanced clinical trials of three vaccine candidates are underway in India: the AstraZeneca vaccine and vaccines developed by two Indian pharmaceutical companies, Zydus Cadila and Bharat Biotech. An Indian company is also starting clinical trials of Russia’s vaccine candidate, Sputnik V.
“Whether India makes a vaccine by itself or not, from a manufacturing standpoint, it’s going to be playing a very, very important role,” said Mahima Datla, managing director of Biological E., a 67-year-old vaccine producer based in the city of Hyderabad. Datla also sits on the board of Gavi.
India’s health minister recently predicted that the country would be in a position to start distributing a vaccine within the next six months. The government is working on a plan to immunize as many as 250 million people by July, he said.
Reaching that goal will require the manufacturing heft of Serum Institute. The company has diverted capacity from existing vaccines and started work on a new production facility to be completed next year at its headquarters in the western Indian city of Pune.
Poonawalla said the company has pledged to keep half of the vaccines it makes for use within India. It has already begun manufacturing the AstraZeneca vaccine, he said. About 20 million doses have been made, and he expects to have 10 times that amount ready in the next four months.
He is optimistic that in 2021, a new coronavirus vaccine will be licensed for public use every couple of months. “That’s the good news,” Poonawalla said. The less-good news is that it remains unclear which vaccine, if any, will offer long-term protection from the virus. “Nobody wants a vaccine that is only going to protect you for a few months,” he said.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/asia_pacific/coronavirus-vaccine-india-serum-institute/2020/11/10/bbd7509c-0fb0-11eb-bfcf-b1893e2c51b4_story.html


#14
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 21.11.2020
Заглавие: Coronavirus vaccines are coming. Who should get them first?


By William Booth Eva Dou, 
Robyn Dixonand Luisa Beck
November 21, 2020
LONDON — A coronavirus vaccine is coming soon. The question now for the world is who will be at the front of the line for an injection.
In the initial months, vaccines will certainly be rationed. Demand will outstrip supply. There will be millions of doses available, not billions.
Health ministries around the globe are just now beginning to create the lists that will prioritize vaccine allocation within their countries. It is harder than it might seem.
Nations need to wrestle with questions of fairness and expediency. They need to determine how to balance saving the lives of the most vulnerable against stopping the spread of the virus against the need to keep essential workers — however they are defined — on the job.
Tough decisions await: Who goes first, second or third?
Someone in Europe is dying every 17 seconds from covid-19, WHO says
In France, scientific advisory bodies have flagged as high priority both people whose age and whose occupation make them vulnerable. But while doses are limited? Officials may have to choose, for example, between the 26-year-old Paris taxi driver, who shares a confined space all day with his passengers, and the 69-year-old investor who is working remotely from his villa in Provence, but whose age increases his chances of covid-19 complications.
Creating a new vaccine can involve thousands of people over several years. Here's what it takes to produce a new FDA-approved vaccine. (The Washington Post)
How do nations weigh other risk groups? Obesity is a comorbidity for serious complications from covid-19. Do the overweight in the richest countries get to jump the queue — or just the seriously obese? What protections do Britain, or the United States, owe to racial and ethnic minorities who make up an outsize portion of those dying?
Allocation decisions may crystallize in the United States with a decision by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention within days after vaccine approval. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine called addressing racial inequities a “moral imperative.”
Some countries also want to target groups with the greatest potential to spread the virus. Prisons have been hot spots for infection around the world. So have universities. Would lower-risk people be okay knowing they rank below those who have committed crimes or partying students who have been flouting public health restrictions?
As the lists begin to emerge, many nations agree that the first priority should be front-line medical workers, alongside first responders such as ambulance attendants.
Even within the category of heath-care workers, questions arise over which ones. Britain’s National Health Service, for example, employs 1.4 million workers. Not all of them interact with patients.
Numerous task forces say the next in line should be the very aged, who run the greatest risk of severe illness and death from covid-19.
Japan aims to distribute vaccines in line with medical risks, with the elderly at the very front of the line, the Health Ministry announced this month.
In Europe, health officials appear likely to tilt toward early inoculation of residents and caregivers in nursing homes, where the virus has taken its greatest toll — and where governments in Belgium, Britain, Spain and elsewhere have been embarrassed by their failure.
Belgium vowed to protect nursing homes from covid-19. Deaths there are still among the worst in the world.
Nursing home workers await French Health Minister Olivier Véran in Clamart, France. (Martin Bureau/AP)
From there, the trade-offs become more fraught.
“The low-hanging fruit, as it were, is blindingly obvious, but then it gets tricky,” said Paul Hunter, professor in medicine at the University of East Anglia. “You want to protect heath-care workers and residents of care homes, clearly. Then the extremely vulnerable. That’s easy. Then essential workers? That could be a very large group,” Hunter said. “I am glad I don’t have to make these decisions, but someone does.”
Experts say the decisions should be transparent and based on criteria accepted by society, not just officials or politicians. Understanding why governments are favoring one group over another may be crucial in getting citizens to roll up their sleeves for a shot — or patiently wait their turn.
Their coronavirus vaccine candidate has made them billionaires. This modest German Turkish couple doesn’t own a car.
Germany’s vaccine commission said it will, before the end of the year, present a research-backed ranking with more details about who will be given early access. “With evidence-based reasons we will make transparent why priority rankings are assigned to particular groups,” the German commission said. It added that the ranking would be adjusted with new scientific evidence or new vaccines.
In France, the public is being actively consulted on priorities. In Britain, they are not — which has led to complaints of unfairness from unions.
In the House of Lords in the British Parliament recently, Dale Campbell-Savours, a Labour lord, pleaded that “absolute priority” be given to “the vulnerable, itinerant, homeless and occupants of night shelters.”
“That is the least we can do for those in need,” he said.
Volunteers with the Tooting Community Kitchen offer food to a homeless man in South London. (Henry Nicholls/Reuters)
Colin Moynihan, a Conservative Party lord, had his own pitch, pressing that priority be given to the athletes and their entourages seeking to represent Britain in the 2021 Olympic Games in Tokyo.
For its part, Japan has promised to offer vaccines to the entire population by the middle of 2021 — which would be in time for the Olympics — and has preordered supplies from various potential vaccine manufacturers.
Philip Clarke, a health economist at the University of Oxford, said the urgency of the priority lists will depend on how long it takes for vaccines to become widely available.
“Meaning if everyone has access to a shot over a period of weeks, it might not matter who goes first or last,” he said. “But if vaccines are rolled out slowly, over many months, it might matter very much who goes first or last.”
What you need to know about the Moderna and Pfizer coronavirus vaccines
For smaller and poorer countries that couldn’t afford to put in preorders before vaccines were approved, the hierarchy will be even more critical.
Clarke said he has been surprised that there has not yet been a wider public debate in most societies — as it could be literally a matter of life or death, for individuals and economies.
How a Black doctor found healing in protests while watching a pandemic attack people of color
Duaa AbdelHameid, a resident in Boston, was inspired to protest after seeing firsthand the impact of Covid-19 on people of color. (Hadley Green/The Washington Post)
In Britain, after vaccinating medical workers and nursing home residents, the government is leaning toward distributing the vaccine by age group — the over 80s, followed by over 75s, over 70s, over 65s — before extending it to other at-risk groups.
Advertisement
Clarke said allocating by age was “verifiable and simple,” and the public may trust such an approach, “but you might prevent more covid and save more lives with better lists.”
He said in Britain, some occupations were clearly more risky than others. “The first wave of the pandemic showed security guards and delivery drivers had worse mortality rates than health-care workers.”
Germany’s vaccine commission said shots should be given to people whose work in society fills “especially relevant functions and that aren’t easily replaceable.” Although many people think they are irreplaceable, Germany suggests these workers are public health officers, police, firefighters and teachers.
In China, officials want to include port workers, who provide the vital service of loading and unloading the cargo ships that power their trade.
In Indonesia, the government is emphasizing protecting younger workers, to keep the economy going.
How about political leaders? Should members of the House and Senate — or members of the German Bundestag, British Parliament and National People’s Congress in China — get priority access, outside of considerations for age and health?
In its early guidelines, the World Health Organization said yes, early access for government leaders makes sense, but it cautioned that the favored should include “a very small number of individuals.”
Russia — where President Vladimir Putin’s daughter has been vaccinated — may have already surpassed those limits.
Russia has administered thousands of doses of its Sputnik V vaccine. Health workers on covid-19 wards were among the first recipients. More than 45,000 of them have been given shots, according to Alexander Gintsburg, director of the Gamaleya National Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology, which developed Russia’s vaccine.
Bloomberg News reported in July that Russian politicians, officials and oligarchs were given access to the vaccine beginning in April, before it was registered.
Health officials deny that claim. But many senior Russian officials have been vaccinated by now, including Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin. Sobyanin said it would have been difficult for him to campaign in favor of the vaccine if he did not get it.
A vial, a vaccine and hopes for slowing a pandemic — how a shot comes to be
In China, the calculation of who gets vaccinated first has been different than in the West, as the main risk is imported cases. China has largely quashed the domestic spread of the virus through exhaustive measures, such as testing every resident in a city when a new cluster emerges.
China has put citizens with overseas travel plans among the groups prioritized for emergency-use vaccines. Aside from preventing its citizens from bringing the virus back home, it also reduces the risk of Chinese nationals becoming carriers of the virus overseas, at a time when anti-Chinese sentiment is high in many places because of the pandemic’s origins in China.
China’s vaccine allocation has also been affected by the fact that it began emergency use long before the experimental vaccines were proven to be safe and effective. They still haven’t been — at least not in any medical journal.
So the first groups to gain access in China were those who could be relied on to accept personal risks on behalf of their nation: soldiers, diplomats, workers in state-owned enterprises and employees of the vaccine makers themselves.
Sinovac Biotech’s chief executive said in September that 90 percent of his company’s employees and their families had taken their experimental vaccine.
Zheng Zhongwei, an official at China’s National Health Commission, said last month that the general population had been classified for vaccine access into three tiers: those in high-risk work environments, vulnerable groups and the general public. Vulnerable groups include children in China.
“No matter which region they are in, if they meet these characteristics, they should be given priority for the vaccine,” he said.
Another alternative might be to focus less on people’s characteristics, but regions. In some countries, governments could target hot spots first, or focus on dense urban populations vs. those more isolated in the countryside.
Penny Ward, a visiting professor in pharmaceutical medicine at King’s College London, said the allocation of vaccines in various countries may depend on what the vaccines turn out to do best.
Ward said Britain’s focus on inoculating the elderly is based on the presumption that the vaccine will, predominantly, protect against illness rather than prevent infection entirely. And so British officials are targeting people most likely to suffer serious illness, requiring hospital care, and death.
“This approach also requires a lower proportion of the population to be vaccinated than would be required if the strategy were to be to prevent infection and cut short community outbreaks, which would require vaccination of a high proportion of the entire population,” she said.
Yet another approach would be to go random. In the 2011 film “Contagion,” the world is saved by a vaccine, made from an attenuated virus, which is distributed to the public by a lottery based on birthdays, not age.
It is not a far-fetched idea. Randomization, or a weighted lottery, has been used to distribute scarce, lifesaving drugs in the past — most recently the allocation of remdesivir to treat severely ill covid-19 patients.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/covid-vaccine-distribution/2020/11/21/915c3d52-29cb-11eb-9c21-3cc501d0981f_story.html


#15
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 24.11.2020
Заглавие: China and Russia are using coronavirus vaccines to expand their influence. The U.S. is on the sidelines.
By Loveday Morris, 
Emily Rauhala, 
Shibani Mahtaniand Robyn Dixon
November 24, 2020
Russia's Sputnik gambit
Russia’s vaccine diplomacy is part of a broader push by President Vladimir Putin to reassert the country’s status as a global power. Even the name it chose for its first covid-19 vaccine — Sputnik V — evokes the 1950s Cold War space race.
Russian officials claim to have provisional orders from some 50 countries for 1.2 billion doses of Sputnik V in the next year and say they have negotiated deals with firms in South Korea, India, China, Kazakhstan and E.U.-member Hungary, led by nationalist President Viktor Orban.
Trials are underway or planned in India, the U.A.E., Brazil, Venezuela and longtime Russian ally Belarus.
The rush to roll out the vaccine before Phase 3 trials has raised questions about the safety and efficacy of the vaccine.
Sputnik V’s developers, the Gamaleya National Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), say the vaccine is 92 percent effective. A second Russian vaccine has been registered and a third is in development.
Kirill Dmitriev, head of the RDIF, declined an interview request but has portrayed criticism of Sputnik V as a Western effort to undermine the project.
Russia ramps up rhetoric to defend Sputnik V vaccine
The Kremlin, too, is hailing Sputnik V in its diplomatic outreach. “Nowadays, the issue appears on the agenda of Putin's discussions with all of his foreign colleagues,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in a recent interview with journalists.
Russia has always tried to project soft power by emphasizing its technological achievements, said Grigory Golosov, political analyst at the European University at St. Petersburg. “This only adds one more topic to this more or less continuous flow of propaganda,” he said.
But the international push is also aimed at building support for the Russian vaccine at home, he added. An August poll in Russia by the Levada Center found that 54 percent of those surveyed would not take the vaccine even if it was free because of distrust and fear.
And then there is the question of capacity.
Speaking at an investment forum last month, Putin conceded that Russia faces problems in swiftly ramping up production because it lacks the equipment. Russia has been forced to slash its overly optimistic plans to make 30 million doses this year; it now estimates it will produce roughly 2 million.
“Russian vaccines exist. They work, and they are safe and efficient,” Putin said last Tuesday at a summit of BRICS nations — Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. “The question is how to arrange the mass production.”
He told the G-20 virtual summit Saturday that vaccines must be made universally available to all countries, rich or poor, and said Russia was ready to distribute its vaccines to those who need them.
“Products for immunization need to be common public assets,” Putin told the summit. “Russia, of course, is ready to provide needy countries with vaccines developed by our scientists.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/vaccine-russia-china-influence/2020/11/23/b93daaca-25e5-11eb-9c4a-0dc6242c4814_story.html


#16
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 26.11.2021
Заглавие: Russia’s vaccine volunteers swap stories — and antibody readings — as amateur researchers


Max Popov, a participant in Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine trial. Popov, a Canadian citizen, and his Russian wife, Natalia Khristyukova, both volunteered for the trial in Moscow and have joined a Telegram online group trading stories and health data. (Courtesy of Max Popov)
By Robyn Dixon
November 26, 2020
MOSCOW — Their friends and relatives called them "test bunnies" and warned they risked horrible health problems from Russia's entry into the vaccine race.
But a group of Russians who dived in early as volunteers in trials of Russia's Sputnik V have emerged as amateur researchers before the official results of full Phase 3 data, still months away even though Russian officials on Tuesday asserted the vaccine was 95 percent effective.
Instead, they have set themselves up in an online community — and, like members of a nerdy high school science team, they are doing their own explorations and analyses.
Nearly 1,500 people swap messages, answer questions and share antibody results and other health updates in an unofficial Telegram group that calls itself “Covid Vaccine Trial Volunteers.”
It’s one of the quirkiest corners in the global race for a vaccine, with Sputnik V among other formulas from labs in the United States, China and Europe.
The online group welcomes newcomers desperate to get into the vaccine trial, sending links to the best places for swift acceptance. Members commiserate with disappointed participants who seem to have gotten the trial’s placebo shots. They plot graphs of results and symptoms and sling around technical information about antibodies and T cells.
A few are experts, with a background in biochemistry or data research, but most are ordinary folk, as Russia’s new cases reach records of around 24,000 a day.
Russia’s government has not commented publicly on the Web salon. But the chatter should seem familiar. Like Russian officials, almost all of posts in the Telegram group believe Sputnik V is effective.
Russia and China use vaccines to expand influence. U.S. is on the sidelines.
“The satellite, d---, flies and beeps!” posted Dmitry Kulish, convinced of the power of the vaccine named after Russia’s first Cold War satellite.


Kulish, a biochemist and professor at the Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation at the Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology, a private research institute in Moscow, took part in the trial because it was the only way to get the vaccine.
“Long story short: I got two shots and two days ago I got my antibody level and it’s really high so I am so happy about it,” he said in an interview.
According to Russian investigative website Proekt, members of Russia’s elite, including tycoons and officials, were lining up to be secretly given Sputnik V shots even before it was registered in August. Russian officials have denied that elite Russians got early insider access.
Russian reluctance
Watch as Alexander Samsanov gets the first round of the Sputnik V vaccine trial
Alexander Samsonov decided to join the vaccine trial after his grandmother died of covid-19 and friends contracted the virus. (The Washington Post)
Many other Russians, however, remain skeptical of vaccination in general: 59 percent of Russians would not take a coronavirus vaccine, according to October polling by the Levada Center. The polling does not reflect the reasons for skepticism. But, as in Europe, the United States and elsewhere, the anti-vaccine lobby has taken hold in Russia in some quarters — as have conspiracy theories suggesting that the novel coronavirus does not exist.
Vladimir Rusetsky and his wife, Yelena, were afraid of infecting their elderly parents with the coronavirus, so they dived in early to join the Phase 3 clinical trial for Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine. (Courtesy of Vladimir Rusetsky)
“As for the efficacy of the Russian vaccine or any other vaccine, I don’t think anyone knows. Only time will tell,” said trial volunteer Alexander Samsonov, 39, a member of the Telegram group who claimed he got a strong antibody boost based on the Italian firm DiaSorin’s Liaison test, taken at a Moscow testing center.
Samsonov quit his public relations job in the summer because his boss insisted that employees return to office-based work, where few bothered with protection measures like masks and gloves.
He eschewed his usual round of concerts, walks in the park, exhibitions and coffee-shop meetings with journalists. He stayed home for month after month, constantly glued to his computer, working freelance.
France and Britain to loosen coronavirus restrictions ahead of Christmas
“I was stressed. I stayed home all the time,” he said. “You sit down all day and you put on weight.”
Samsonov decided to join the vaccine trial after his 92-year-old grandmother died of covid-19 and friends contracted the virus.
“They told me terrible things. Some got diabetes. Some got blood clots. And some had problems with their lungs,” he said.
But some colleagues and friends also poked fun at Samsonov’s protection measures, including masks and gloves. When he volunteered for the trial, they said he would be sorry.
“They told me — because the vaccine has not been tested to the very end, and because the vaccination thing is political — I would have health problems,” he said. “I would never have kids and I would develop various diseases because of this vaccine.”
He described the vaccine, even still experimental, as helping lift his mood like the curtain rising on a premiere. He found a new job in public relations.
“I feel much calmer. I feel like I can get out of self-isolation now,” he said. “I can’t live in isolation until the summer of 2021.”
Medical 'Kalashnikov'
As global competition heats up, Russia is targeting markets in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, Central Asia and Africa. President Vladimir Putin pushes the vaccine in every conversation he has with any world leader — jostling with rivals that include British-Swedish giant AstraZeneca in alliance with Oxford University, and U.S.-based Moderna and Pfizer, the latter of which is collaborating with Germany’s BioNTech.
Russia’s claims that Sputnik V is 95 percent effective are similar to results reported by Moderna and by Pfizer and BioNTech.
If approved, first doses of Pfizer vaccine could be shipped in mid-December
Russia’s stance — in the words of loyal state TV anchor Dmitry Kiselyov — is to pooh-pooh the West’s vaccines as expensive and temperamental products that must be kept at very low temperatures. Sputnik V is freeze-dried and more easily stored and transported. Kiselyov compared it to one of the Soviet Union’s most famous exports.
“Sputnik V is like a Kalashnikov, simple and reliable,” he said on the “Vesti Nedeli” television program earlier this month. “Just like any frozen product, Pfizer is likely to suffer logistical problems.”
Alexander Samsonov, a Moscow public relations manager, took part in the Phase 3 clinical trial of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine in Moscow. Worried about the pandemic, he resigned from his job rather than go into the office as his boss demanded, and bought a medical-grade mask for protection. (Courtesy of Alexander Samsonov)
Vladimir Rusetsky, 36, and his wife, Yelena, both IT specialists, started the Telegram group to share information and were surprised to see how fast it grew.
They flew 1,670 miles from their home in Omsk to Moscow — twice — to join the trial and take the two sets of shots. They were afraid of infecting their parents.
“When you have older relatives, it’s scary,” Rusetsky said.
Antibody tests after the vaccine showed their levels were high, he said.
He hopes that the group will persuade skeptics, including friends and family, to consider getting the shot when it is widely available early next year.
“My wife’s daughter, who lives in America, called us test rabbits. Now she sees that we have antibodies and her attitude has changed,” Rusetsky said. The couple still follow the rules on masks and gloves, mainly to set an example to others.
“Of course I have this feeling of relief,” he said. “Now I know my relatives will be safe. I will not pass on the disease to them and that calms me down a lot.”
Max Popov, a Canadian citizen in the Telegram vaccine community and a related Facebook group, said there was no reason to fear Russia’s vaccine. But he and his Russian wife, Natalia Khristyukova, had no antibodies after their clinical trial shots.
“Based on that, I figured that both my wife and I are in the placebo group, unfortunately,” said Popov, who manufactures and installs television equipment in Russia.
Rusetsky is sure he got the vaccine, not the placebo. He called it “life-changing.”
“And if those people who did not want to be vaccinated look at me and change their minds and will get a vaccine,” he said, “that would just be great.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/russia-coronavirus-vaccine-sputnik/2020/11/25/8ebb62fe-186d-11eb-8bda-814ca56e138b_story.html






#17
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 02.12.2020
Заглавие: U.K. authorizes Pfizer coronavirus vaccine as U.S. hospitalizations, daily cases reach record high


By William Booth, 
Karla Adam, 
Laurie McGinley
and Jose A. Del Real
December 2, 2020
LONDON — Britain on Wednesday granted emergency approval to the coronavirus vaccine from pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and the German company BioNTech, becoming the first Western country to authorize mass inoculations that could lead to an end of the pandemic.
Drug regulators in Britain have a global reputation for being tough but fast, employing a system of continuous "rolling review" of incoming data from drug companies. But to see a potentially lifesaving shot invented, tested and approved in less than a year smashes all speed records.
Scientists point out that the genetic sequence of the novel coronavirus, which first struck Wuhan, China, was published only 260 days ago.
The British government, led by Prime Minister Boris Johnson, has been keen to be first in the West to roll out a vaccine — especially after months of criticism for having the highest death toll in Europe. British officials said a mass immunization program would start almost immediately, with distribution of the first 800,000 doses to begin next week.
At an evening news conference, Johnson said: “We’ve been waiting and hoping for the day when the search lights of science would pick out our invisible enemy and give us the power to stop that enemy from making us ill. And now, the scientists have done it.”
Their coronavirus vaccine candidate has made them billionaires. This modest German Turkish couple doesn’t own a car.
The giddy news from Britain prompted some griping in the United States and the European Union — though they may not be far behind in granting their own approval. A U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory committee is expected to meet Dec. 10, and a decision by the agency on authorizing the vaccine could come soon after that. The E.U.’s drug regulator said it would make a decision by Dec. 29.
President Trump expressed disappointment Wednesday that Britain approved the vaccine first, according to two White House officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity to relay private conversations. His chief of staff, Mark Meadows, met twice this week with FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn to discuss how the vaccine process could be sped up in the United States. Hahn’s job is said to be in jeopardy over his failure to further accelerate approval of the vaccine, which is already progressing in record time. The FDA declined to comment.
Meanwhile, an unprecedented surge of covid-19 hospitalizations across the United States is putting hospitals and medical staff under enormous strain. The country hit a pair of alarming coronavirus benchmarks Wednesday, surpassing 200,000 new infections and topping 100,000 covid-19 patients hospitalized — the first time the United States has reached either metric.
Experts are bracing for another wave of new cases and hospitalizations connected to Thanksgiving travel. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Robert Redfield said Wednesday that the next three months could be the “most difficult time in the public health history of this nation.” He said the coronavirus death toll could reach 450,000 by February.
In an effort to increase compliance with public health guidelines, the CDC on Wednesday updated its recommendations for post-exposure quarantine from the standard 14 days to 10 or even seven days. The longer 14-day quarantine period reflects the virus’s long incubation period before symptoms appear. But the CDC said the shorter quarantine period would still cover the vast majority of infections while boosting adherence to public health recommendations and improving participation in contact tracing. 
In Europe, some E.U. leaders suggested Britain had moved too fast — and indicated annoyance at the nationalistic tone coming from the British government.
“We have member states, including Germany, who could have issued such emergency authorization if they wanted to, but we decided against this. And what we opted for was a common European approach to move forward together” in Europe, the German health minister Jens Spahn told reporters. 
“It’s important that we do this to help promote trust and confidence in this authorization,” Spahn said.
In the United States, the FDA reviews all aspects of the data submitted with a vaccine application, including manufacturing and individual patient-level data. The British Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency instead relied largely on summary data submitted by Pfizer and BioNTech, according to experts.
And British authorities did not hold a public meeting involving the Pfizer application, though it did confer with an independent expert panel on the medical assessment and conditions of authorization. The FDA, by contrast, committed months ago in the name of transparency to convene a public meeting of its vaccine advisory committee to solicit its recommendations on an emergency authorization and to make public the data that was submitted by the manufacturer.
Robert Califf, who was FDA commissioner during the Obama administration, said it was important for the U.S. regulators to have a “public airing” of the Pfizer application and data, given the level of anti-vaccine sentiment in the United States, even if it takes a little more time.
“We have a lot of skepticism and a need to follow public procedures to provide transparency,” he said.
Trump, who has sought credit for vaccine development, has consistently put pressure on regulators to hasten the availability of the vaccine — to end a pandemic that is widely believed to have harmed his political prospects and because he wants to begin distribution before President-elect Joe Biden takes office, according to the two White House officials.
In an interview, Hahn said the FDA is determined to follow a publicly announced review process that includes requiring “clear and compelling” evidence that a vaccine is safe and effective. He said the agency is adhering to criteria similar to those used for a full approval process, which typically takes several months or longer. “But our team does need the time to fulfill our obligation to the American people,” he said, adding that the FDA is known around the world as the “gold standard” for its rigorous reviews of products.
Alok Sharma, a British government deputy minister, was among those who took the opportunity Wednesday to wave the Union Jack. “The UK was the first country to sign a deal with Pfizer/BioNTech — now we will be the first to deploy their vaccine,” he tweeted. “. . . In years to come, we will remember this moment as the day the UK led humanity’s charge against this disease.”
But Spahn, the German health minister, emphasized that “BioNTech is a European development, funded by the European Union. And it showed that if a product from the European Union is so good that it is authorized so quickly in the U.K. in this crisis, what is best is European and international cooperation.”
The E.U.’s regulator defended its slightly slower review as ensuring “full evaluation of the data available and clear obligations with legal controls on safety, quality and efficacy.”
At a Downing Street news conference, June Raine, chief executive of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, defended the speed of the country’s approval process and said the British agency had “absolute confidence” in the “safety, effectiveness and quality” of the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine. 
“If you are climbing a mountain, you prepare and prepare,” she said. “We started that in June. By the time the interim results became available on November 10, we were at base camp, and then when we got the final analysis, we were ready for that last sprint that takes us to today.”
Coronavirus vaccines are coming. Who should get them first?
BioNTech and Pfizer scientists, in a video call with reporters, said they have been providing the same data sets to all regulators throughout their trials, from the earliest safety data to the latest November results from large clinical trials taking place in six countries.
When asked why the FDA was moving slower, BioNTech co-founder Özlem Türeci said all regulators “have been highly committed and engaged.”
Sean Marett, the firm’s chief commercial officer, said British regulators asked “the same kind of detailed questions as any other agency.”
Berkeley Phillips, medical director of Pfizer UK, said the vaccine has been shown to be 95 percent effective in preventing covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. In clinical trials that have grown to 44,000 volunteers, eight people who received the vaccine went on to get covid-19 symptoms, while 162 people who received the placebo got sick from the virus.
Meanwhile, nine out of 10 “severe” cases of the disease were in the control group who got a placebo, with only one severe case in the vaccinated group.
Phillips said, “We didn’t see any serious side effects,” and the vaccine worked well for the elderly and minorities. Britain approved the vaccine for anyone over 16 years of age.
According to Pfizer’s data, the vaccine will give partial immunity after the first dose and full protection about seven days after the second dose, said Munir Pirmohamed, a professor at the University of Liverpool and an independent adviser to the British government. The two doses are to be given about three weeks apart.
The Pfizer vaccine will not be the first to be widely distributed. Both China and Russia have been inoculating swaths of their populations, but far less is known about the efficacies of their vaccines and how they’ve been tested.
On Wednesday, Russian President Vladimir Putin called for a “large-scale” effort to immunize doctors and teachers with the country’s Sputnik V vaccine as early as next week.
The Pfizer vaccine is the first product brought to market by BioNTech, until now a little-known German firm based in the western city of Mainz and run by a husband-and-wife team of Turkish heritage.
It is also the first vaccine of its kind to be rolled out anywhere in the world.
It deploys not a crippled virus or a bit of virus, as traditional vaccines do, but a snip of messenger RNA, delivered into muscle cells in the body. This RNA turns a body’s cell into a factory to produce replicas of the spike protein on the surface of the coronavirus. These pieces of protein — an antigen — then stimulate an immune response that produces antibodies against the virus and prepares the body to repel the virus when it comes.
“It’s a new drug entity,” BioNTech co-founder Ugur Sahin said in the Wednesday news conference.
Company officials said they would be selling doses to governments, not the private market. They have so far committed to deals with 13 countries plus the 27-member European Union through 2021.
“We set out at the beginning to deliver this vaccine to the world, and that means fair allocations to all countries,” Marett said.
The U.S. government is so far the biggest purchaser — it has preordered 100 million doses, with an option to acquire 500 million more. The E.U. signed an agreement for 200 million doses to be distributed among its member countries.
U.S. officials anticipate having about 40 million doses of vaccines from Pfizer and biotech firm Moderna by the end of the year, enough to immunize 20 million people.
British officials said they will have a few million doses of the Pfizer vaccine by the end of the year, with the rest by the spring. Britain has ordered 40 million doses — enough to vaccinate 20 million people. That is not enough in a country of 67 million, so supply will be crucial, and most people will have to wait months for their shot, even if other front-running vaccines are approved soon. 
The first shipments will arrive in British warehouses from Pfizer’s manufacturing facility in Belgium over the weekend. The vaccine will be transported at sub-Antarctic temperatures, in packed trays of 965 doses in dry ice, making logistics challenging.
Jonathan Van-Tam, the deputy chief medical officer for England, said the Pfizer vaccine is “not a yogurt that can be put in the fridge and taken out multiple times. . . We’re going to work as fast as we can.”
Pfizer scientists, however, said that once the vaccine arrives at final distribution points in Britain, it can be kept safely in a regular refrigerator for up to five days.
The British government said the first people to receive the vaccine should be the most vulnerable to covid-19, and so at the head of the line will be those over 80, along with nursing home residents and their caregivers.
In Britain, as in the United States and many other countries, residents of these facilities have suffered some of the highest rates of mortality, especially in the first wave of the pandemic. According to the Office for National Statistics, more than 17,000 people who died of covid-19 — 27 percent of all coronavirus-related deaths in England and Wales — were residents of nursing homes.
Wei Shen Lim, chair of the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunization, said Britain is prioritizing those most at risk of dying from the virus. The prime minister said he hoped to inoculate all of the most vulnerable by the spring. 
British regulators are also reviewing a competing vaccine made by the University of Oxford and the British-Swedish pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. If approved, the government has made orders for 100 million doses from AstraZeneca. An additional 7 million doses are on preorder from another front-running vaccine candidate made by the U.S. company Moderna.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/britain-pfizer-coronavirus-vaccine/2020/12/02/90f7276e-3470-11eb-9699-00d311f13d2d_story.html


#18
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 10.12.2020
Заглавие: Russia expected a surge for its Sputnik V vaccine. But many skeptics still stayed away.


By Robyn Dixon6:48 p.m.
MOSCOW — The staff at Moscow’s Polyclinic No. 5, syringes at the ready, waited for the expected flood of people as the first phase of mass coronavirus vaccinations rolled out this week. And waited. And waited some more. Rows of empty seats lined the waiting area. Staff members, with little to do, squabbled about where to put a small vase of dried pink flowers.
With Russia’s coronavirus cases rising sharply, authorities are banking on the country’s Sputnik V vaccine as the answer to the crisis — and opened the vaccine to the public even before it finishes Phase III trials. In the first group, health workers and teachers can start the two-dose treatment.
But there seemed to be more vaccine skeptics than takers in the first week across Russia, struggling with the fourth-highest number of cases at more than 2.5 million. The reasons tap into both Russia’s history of wariness about authority, and Internet-driven conspiracy theories and pandemic deniers — reflecting similar anti-vaccine rallying cries in the United States, Germany and elsewhere.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/rusisia-vaccine-sputnik-interest/2020/12/10/005917fa-3702-11eb-9699-00d311f13d2d_story.html


#19
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 10.12.2020
Заглавие: Medical research again leaves pregnant women waiting for a vaccine — this time for coronavirus


By Miriam Berger
December 10, 2020
Around 70 percent of health-care workers worldwide are women, meaning many are on the front lines of the coronavirus pandemic and, in theory, toward the front of the line for a vaccine shot as they begin to be distributed.
But there’s a catch: Vaccination programs from Russia to the United Kingdom are excluding women who are pregnant, breastfeeding or planning for a pregnancy because the vaccine candidates were not clinically tested on these populations as part of their initial trials.
Women are systematically excluded from global coronavirus coverage, experts say
On Tuesday, Britain launched the West’s first mass coronavirus vaccinations using the Pfizer-BioNTech shot. But guidance so far from the U.K. government has excluded pregnant women from the shots.
“Evidence so far reviewed … raises no concerns for safety in pregnancy,” Public Health England explained on its website. But “because of the new formulation of this particular vaccine,” the agency “wants to see more non-clinical data before finalising the advice in pregnancy.”
The advisory continued: “It is standard practice when waiting for such data on any medicine, to avoid its use in those who may become pregnant or who are breastfeeding. This will be kept under review as more evidence becomes available.”
Russia’s recent initial rollout of its Sputnik V vaccine similarly did not include this demographic.
Vaccines are on the way. What does that mean for pregnant people?
Medical professionals acknowledge that — given the lack of available scientific data on how coronavirus vaccines interact with pregnancies — there is not yet sufficient evidence to safely recommend their use. But some also describe that as a symptom of a larger problem and are urging trials to begin including pregnant and breastfeeding women to ensure equitable coverage going forward.
“The lack of vaccination data on pregnant and breastfeeding people is definitely important as it means it’s not truly inclusive data, but also — women make up a significant portion of the healthcare workforce,” Saskia Popescu, an infectious-disease epidemiologist and infection preventionist at the University of Arizona and an external expert advising the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control, wrote in an email.
She continued: “Moreover, we have seen that pregnant women are at risk for severe disease and preterm birth as a result of SARS-CoV-2 infection. The vaccines are still very new but we really need to be mindful of these knowledge gaps and that moving forward, we will need to address them both from a safety standpoint, but also an ethical one.”
The vaccine gap could additionally have employment implications at a time when pandemic-related job losses have disproportionately hit women hardest. What if, for example, a doctor or nurse has to choose between a possible pregnancy and a vaccine to continue their work?
Pregnant women and children have historically been excluded from initial vaccine trials because they are classified as more vulnerable populations, said Alyson Kelvin, a flu and infectious-disease researcher at the Canadian Center for Vaccinology and Dalhousie University.
Women while pregnant are “immunologically different” to protect the developing fetus, said Kelvin, so “pregnant women might have a different response” to a vaccine “when she’s pregnant versus when she’s not pregnant.”
At the same time, women 28 weeks or more into a pregnancy are considered at increased risk if they contract viral illnesses such as the coronavirus, raising the stakes of their not being included in trials.
Pregnant women were similarly left out of initial studies of influenza vaccines. Over time, as flu vaccines were shown to be safe in a wide range of populations, the guidance changed to clear pregnant and breastfeeding women for the vaccines. In these cases, researchers also comb through data to analyze how vaccines may have interacted with women in the studies who did not know or intend to be pregnant — which could have been the case for some participants in the coronavirus vaccine studies as well.
But Marian Knight, a professor of maternal and child population health at the University of Oxford, said the coronavirus pandemic offers a clear case for changing this regulatory framework.
“The precautionary principle when excluding pregnant and breastfeeding women from research doesn’t ever think about how they might benefit from the research,” she said. “The default should be inclusion, unless there’s a clear reason that women should be excluded.”
The U.K.’s Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists has called on the government “to fund research studies to establish the suitability of any approved coronavirus vaccines in pregnant and breastfeeding women.”
Ruth Faden, founder of Johns Hopkins University’s bioethics institute, similarly urged the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in a recent letter to permit pregnant and lactating women to receive the Pfizer vaccine while acknowledging the unknown safety implications.
Still, Knight said she expected it would be some time before coronavirus vaccines are licensed for pregnant women, as there would need to be several phases of trials conducted to gather the necessary data.
“Pregnant women, who we know are also at risk, have no means of protection,” she said. “So the only thing we can be advising pregnant women is to continue social distancing and being very diligent about it. Whereas for all others [at high risk], the vaccine is really the beginning of seeing some of our freedoms back.” https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2020/12/10/pregnant-women-are-excluded-initial-covid-19-vaccinations-highlighting-worldwide-research-gap/


#20
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 11.12.2020
Заглавие: Russia expected a surge for its Sputnik V vaccine. But many skeptics still stayed away.


By Robyn Dixon
December 11, 2020
MOSCOW — The staff at Moscow's Polyclinic No. 5, syringes at the ready, waited for the expected flood of people as the first phase of mass coronavirus vaccinations rolled out this week.
And waited. And waited some more. Rows of empty seats lined the waiting area. Staff members, with little to do, squabbled about where to put a small vase of dried pink flowers.
With Russia’s coronavirus cases rising sharply, authorities are banking on the country’s Sputnik V vaccine as the answer to the crisis — and opened the vaccine to the public even before it finishes Phase III trials. In the first group, health workers and teachers can start the two-dose treatment.
But there seemed to be more vaccine skeptics than takers in the first week across Russia, struggling with the fourth-highest number of cases at more than 2.5 million.
The reasons tap into both Russia’s history of wariness about authority, and Internet-driven conspiracy theories and pandemic deniers — reflecting similar anti-vaccine rallying cries in the United States, Germany and elsewhere.
Russian authorities also did not help their cause by issuing muddled messages about whether vaccine-takers need to avoid alcohol for weeks.
“I don’t trust it,” said mechanical engineering student Lia Shulman, 21, “because they always lie. If the government tells you to do something, you should do the opposite.”
Russia rushed to register its vaccine in the summer before it was fully evaluated in trials, which may have fueled public doubts. But deep-rooted skepticism of official promises goes back to Soviet times. Many Russians simply don’t buy the rosy picture of the vaccine painted by health authorities.
“I don’t want to be vaccinated and neither do my parents,” Shulman continued. “Most of my friends are the same.”
In Moscow’s Polyclinic No. 3, beige couches with seating for 20 were vacant on one day this week. In another Moscow clinic, No. 3 Branch 2, the morning passed with no one showing up for a jab.
In efforts to sell the vaccine to the public, Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin and members of Russia’s Security Council have all been received it. President Vladimir Putin could not take the vaccine as a trial volunteer and would make an announcement before getting a shot, said spokesman Dmitry Peskov.
The less-than-enthusiastic turnout may just signify initial wariness until more information comes from the Phase III trial. But if the snub lasts for months, it could be a major setback in Russia’s efforts to control the pandemic.
Waiting for data
Russia’s leaders see the Sputnik V vaccine as an example of Russian scientific might, keeping pace with vaccines developed in the United States, Europe and China.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund, which invested in the vaccine, says more than 40 countries have shown interest and there are global orders for 1.2 billion doses. Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin predicted “explosive” global demand for Sputnik V on Wednesday.
Russian state media has blasted out positive propaganda about the vaccine since the summer, but many Russians remain unconvinced.
Shulman, among others, remains doubtful without clear trial data. Most information has been announced by government officials or news releases from the vaccine developers.
“I haven’t seen the [Sputnik] results, so I don’t trust them,” she said.
So far Russian scientists have published only Phase I/II results in the British medical journal Lancet. Russian officials say the Sputnik V vaccine efficacy exceeds 95 percent and it is safe.
Alexander Samsonov decided to join the vaccine trial after his grandmother died of covid-19 and friends contracted the virus. (The Washington Post)
Anglo-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford on Tuesday became the first to publish a peer-reviewed paper in the Lancet on a full vaccine trial showing 70 percent efficacy, although more trials may be needed to see how well it works for people over 55 years old.
On Dec. 4, Moscow’s deputy mayor, Anastasia Rakova, said 20,000 people had received both shots of the Sputnik V vaccine as part of Phase III trials. Of those, 272 got the virus. There were no serious side effects, she said. The randomized double-blind trial includes 40,000 volunteers aged 18 and over, a quarter of whom get the placebo. In all, 25 other potential Russian vaccines are being developed beyond the flagship Sputnik V, officials said Wednesday.
A poll by the independent Levada Center in October found 59 percent of Russians queried were unwilling to be vaccinated. Another poll in October — commissioned by Putin’s governing party, United Russia — found 73 percent of people were not planning to be vaccinated and 11 percent did not believe in the existence of the coronavirus, Russian state news agency RIA Novosti reported.
A Gallup poll last month said 58 percent of Americans would get a vaccine, up from a low of 50 percent in September.
Some welcome Sputnik
Moscow’s Polyclinic No. 68 had 1,050 vaccine doses ready on Tuesday. The Moscow City Health Department lined up four vaccination customers there for interviews at an event Tuesday for foreign and local media.
Natalia Piskaryova, 41, who works at a children’s hospital, wanted the vaccine because she had friends and relatives who died of the coronavirus.
“Mainly young people don’t trust the vaccine and do not believe in vaccination,” she said. “But there are also some middle-aged people, too. I think it’s irresponsible not to get it.”
With the turnout low, some clinics are admitting anyone who shows up. At Moscow Polyclinic No. 3 Branch 2, anyone under 60 who met health criteria was told they could have the vaccine.
Sergei Dolya, 47, who trained as a physicist, got bored with his wholesale business selling audio gear 15 years ago and sold it to become a travel blogger with his own travel TV show. He is desperate to get the vaccine so he can get back on the road.
The hitch was that he is neither a doctor or teacher.
He signed onto the official vaccination website, noticed there were plenty of vacant vaccination appointment slots and wrote an official-looking letter, declaring himself to be Sergei Dolya, employed by Sergei Dolya and stamping it with his official circular business stamp.
“I was thinking they would tell me to come back in a couple of months when it will be available for everybody,” he said.
At the vaccination center, a nurse asked him whether he was a medical worker or teacher.
“I said, ‘I give talks to schoolchildren,’ ” he said, citing his occasional school appearances.
That was enough. No one even asked for the letter.
It turned out he had to wait. Each vaccine vial is for five people and must be thawed immediately before the vaccine is injected.
“I had to wait there for an hour for another four guys to come in,” he said.
“They were saying that they were expecting a lot more people,” he added, “and that we should bring our friends in because there are a lot of vaccines and a lot of basically everything, just not enough people willing to do it.”
Teetotalling?
Some Russians also may be put off from vaccinations by the official advice to avoid alcohol for three days after each shot. But Alexander Gintsburg, the head of the state-run Gamaleya research center that developed Sputnik V, declared that “a single glass of champagne never hurt anyone.”
A vial of Russia's Sputnik V vaccine. (Maxim Shipenkov/EPA-EFE/Shutterstock)
Several officials suggested Tuesday that Russians would have to swear off alcohol and smoking for 42 days after vaccination — a statement that was swiftly walked back.
In Polyclinic No. 5, security staff tried to prevent Washington Post reporters from visiting the vaccination section.
“Don’t let them in!” an elderly female security official hissed when a doctor agreed to allow the Post reporters in. “We know how it goes! They’ll start asking questions and then there’ll be trouble.”
Irina Ushatkina, 59, a nurse, gets mad when she sees people riding on the Metro without masks. “I glare at them, and sometimes the more responsible ones put them on.” Some of her friends do not believe the disease is serious.
“Some people say the disease was made up, and that it’s all part of some kind of international plot,” said Ushatkina. “Well, what can you say to that? I say that there are so many deaths. ‘What kind of international plotting are you talking about?’”
A Russian Telegram news group, Podyom, posted photographs of anti-vaccination leaflets circulating in Moscow that call vaccines the “rebirth of fascism” and suggest they are a kind of weapon of mass destruction. 
The head doctor at Polyclinic No. 68, Natalia Kuzenkova, acknowledged people were wary. But she believes many people over 60 want the vaccine in Russia, but are not yet eligible.
“If the vaccination is successful, I hope we will be able to finish this pandemic marathon,” she said. “My goal is to explain to people that they might die if they don’t get vaccinated.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/rusisia-vaccine-sputnik-interest/2020/12/10/005917fa-3702-11eb-9699-00d311f13d2d_story.html


#21
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 11.12.2020
Заглавие: AstraZeneca and Russia’s Sputnik V lab to share data in seeking coronavirus vaccine advances


Anglo-Swedish pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca developed its vaccine in collaboration with the University of Oxford. (Justin Tallis/AFP/Getty Images)
By Robyn Dixon
 and 
Rick Noack
 
December 11, 2020
MOSCOW — The developers of Russia's Sputnik V vaccine will share science with pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca to explore possible advances against the coronavirus, both sides said Friday, in the first major collaboration of labs that were in the frenzied vaccine hunt.
It also is a further sign of the unprecedented pace of vaccine research. Efforts are already underway for improvements and second-generation formulas, even before the widespread distribution of the first crop of vaccines from labs in the United States, Europe, China and elsewhere.
The research is aimed at testing new vaccine formulas using cold viruses, said a statement by the Anglo-Swedish AstraZeneca, which could work in tandem with Russia’s Gamaleya National Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology, whose Sputnik V uses two injections based on vectors of the common-cold virus, or adenovirus.
Live updates: The latest on the pandemic around the world
The AstraZeneca vaccine, created with the University of Oxford, uses a cold virus that typically infects chimpanzees. That teaches the human immune system to block the novel coronavirus.
AstraZeneca “will soon begin exploring within Russia to understand whether two adenovirus-based vaccines can be successfully combined,” the company said.
Russia said AstraZeneca had agreed to explore using a Sputnik V “component” as part of efforts to create an improved vaccine.
For Russia — which trumpeted the partnership in tweets from a Sputnik V account — the deal offers a chance to further promote its flagship vaccine, which is still in Phase 3 trials but became available for health-care workers and others this week in Russia. Initial interest at Moscow clinics for the shots, however, appeared limited as many Russians remained wary of the vaccine.
Russia expected a surge for its Sputnik V vaccine. But many skeptics still stayed away.
The potential collaboration also sets up contrasts as wealthy countries snap up the early supplies of the promising vaccines from U.S.-based Moderna and Pfizer, which worked with Germany’s BioNTech. The AstraZeneca-
Oxford vaccine, which is still awaiting regulatory approval, has been promoted by the company as a “vaccine for the world,” with an eye to affordability and global reach.
Russia says it has orders for 1.2 billion doses from more than 40 countries in Asia, Latin America, Africa, Central Asia, India and other regions.


The AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, left, and Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine. (Left: John Cairns/University of Oxford/AFP/Getty Images. Right: Olga Maltseva/AFP/Getty Images)
The British government also recently announced that it would begin testing combinations of two technologies, pairing one dose of a viral-vector vaccine like the one from AstraZeneca with a messenger RNA vaccine, the technology used in the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines.
AstraZeneca said in a statement that such combinations “could help unlock synergies in protection and improve vaccine accessibility and could provide an additional approach to help overcome this deadly virus.”
The news comes as setbacks were announced Friday for two Western vaccines, one developed by France’s Sanofi and Britain’s GlaxoSmithKline and the other by Australia’s University of Queensland.
Russian officials said Thursday that Sputnik V’s efficacy is 96.5 percent, compared with 70 percent for the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine.
The British medical journal the Lancet on Tuesday published a peer-reviewed paper on the AstraZeneca vaccine, but questions lingered about how well it worked in people over 55 and about results showing better outcomes with an initial half-dose. Full scientific data on Sputnik V has not been released, but Russia has promised to provide access to all data to any country interested in the vaccine.
“We offered @AstraZeneca to use one of our vectors so they can also have two vectors in their vaccine. AZ confirmed,” the developers of Sputnik V tweeted Friday.
“The new chapter of vaccine cooperation has started today,” another tweet announced. “We made an offer and AstraZeneca accepted it. It all happened here on Twitter!”
Russia’s decision to register and roll out the vaccine before Phase 3 trials were completed was criticized as reckless by some Western scientists. But Russian officials have grown increasingly hostile and defensive at what they see as Western attacks designed to discredit Russia’s vaccine for commercial reasons.
Igor Konashenkov, a Russian military spokesman, on Friday attacked what he called a foreign-funded “information sabotage” effort against Sputnik V from inside and outside Russia.
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Thursday that the United States and its allies were trying to exploit the pandemic, creating a global vaccine race.
Russia had called for global cooperation to defeat the threat, he said, “but unfortunately, a number of countries, primarily the Americans and their allies, are trying to use this situation in their geopolitical interests, putting their selfish interests above those of all humanity.”
AstraZeneca vaccine details published in Lancet, but questions remain
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Friday denounced unspecified “dirty tricks . . . to discredit our vaccine” and told journalists that “there should not be any rivalry on the vaccine market.”


Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine at a clinic in Moscow last week. (Maxim Shipenkov/EPA-EFE/Shutterstock)
Sputnik V’s developers on Friday also offered to share the Russian vaccine with France’s Sanofi and Britain’s GlaxoSmithKline to boost their vaccine’s efficacy.
Sanofi and GSK announced Friday that their vaccine would be delayed until the end of next year after their trial found a low immune response in older adults.
“#Sputnik V is willing to share its technology with Sanofi and GSK to help in developing their next vaccine,” the Russian Direct Investment Fund, backer of Sputnik V, tweeted. “A partnership of different producers is the way of the future.”
So far, 150,000 Russians have been vaccinated with the Sputnik V vaccine, Gamaleya Center Director Alexander Gintsburg said Thursday. Only front-line health workers and teachers qualify to get the shot in mass vaccinations at government health clinics that opened this week. The Russian military is also offering vaccines to service members.
Polling in Russia shows that many Russians remain skeptical about being vaccinated, with anti-vaccine conspiracy theories circulating online, and that some Russians are convinced the coronavirus does not exist. Any collaboration with a major Western drug company could boost Russian government efforts to encourage Russians to get vaccinated.
Clinical trials of a second Russian vaccine, developed by the Vector Center, began Friday.
The global price of the Sputnik V vaccine has been set at about $20 for two shots. Russian developers say the vaccine can be stored at about 18 degrees, making it easier to store and transport than the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, which must be kept at ultracold temperatures. The AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, however, can be stored long term at ordinary refrigerator temperatures.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/virus-vaccine-astrazeneca-russia-collaboration/2020/12/11/6481a3f8-3baa-11eb-aad9-8959227280c4_story.html


#22
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 16.12.2020
Заглавие: As vials arrive in Israel, Palestinians worry they won’t get any


By Miriam Berger10:45 p.m.
The first vials of the coronavirus vaccine reached Israel one week ago, and more are expected to arrive soon. But Palestinians living in the Israeli-occupied, heavily infected West Bank and the Gaza Strip haven’t received any, and they aren’t sure when they will.
In a letter to Israel’s health minister, Physicians for Human Rights Israel (PHRI) on Wednesday called on the ministry to set aside doses for Palestinians, arguing that “this is required given the fact that the Palestinians are subject to Israeli control and occupation, and have no option of purchasing the vaccines independently, but only through the Israeli authorities.”
Israel however, says the Palestinian government is responsible for vaccinating Palestinians because they are not Israeli citizens. But the Palestinian Authority, the semiautonomous government in charge of parts of the disputed West Bank, does not control any borders, so it must coordinate the entry of any vaccine with Israeli authorities.
Only medications already licensed in Israel are allowed to be imported into the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Further complicating the situation, the Palestinian Authority is bankrupt and locked in conflict with the Hamas government in Gaza, which is under an Israeli-led blockade. The authority consequently lacks the funds to afford a vaccine and — even if it does manage to procure one — must first coordinate with Israel to distribute it to its people.
The authority has signed up for the World Health Organization’s Covax program to provide less-wealthy governments a mechanism for purchasing vaccines. But Covax has not yet begun distribution and does not yet have a definite timeline for doing so.
Last week, the Palestinian Health Ministry announced that it planned to acquire some 4 million doses of Russia’s experimental Sputnik V, which Moscow began distributing in Russia earlier this month. The Russian vaccine, however, has not yet been approved by the WHO or Israel’s health ministry, a criteria for its entry under Israeli-Palestinian accords, so it remains unclear if it could even enter the territories if the deal went through.
Palestinian officials have also said they do not have storage capacity to distribute the Pfizer vaccine, which must be kept at extremely cold temperatures.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2020/12/16/coronavirus-covid-live-updates-us/


#23
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 17.12.2020
Заглавие:Putin deflects interference allegations with own claims of U.S. efforts to undermine Moscow


By Isabelle Khurshudyan
December 17, 2020
MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin tried Thursday to turn the tables on long-standing hacking and political interference allegations against Russia, claiming that the United States was waging similar efforts regarding Moscow's affairs.
At his annual marathon news conference, Putin cast a wide net with unsupported assertions that U.S. hands were behind some of the most high-profile troubles for the Kremlin, including accusations that Russian agents were behind the August nerve agent poisoning of opposition leader Alexei Navalny.
But Putin did not expand on Kremlin denials that Russian government hackers were behind a recent digital spying operation that hit the Department of Homeland Security, the State, Treasury and Commerce departments, and the National Institutes of Health.
Russian authorities often seek to portray the West as steeped in anti-Russian bias and working to undermine Moscow. Putin's latest deflections also could reflect his growing domestic difficulties, including an economy in tatters from low oil prices and the pandemic.
Putin, however, expressed some hope of better relations with the incoming Biden administration, just days after issuing a belated congratulations to the president-elect.
Putin's remarks on the United States were prompted by famous musician-turned-journalist Sergei Shnurov, who asked why Russian hackers didn't help President Trump get reelected.
Putin angrily called the question a "provocation." He repeated claims that U.S. intelligence agencies' conclusion that Russia used hacking, disinformation and other methods in the 2016 election to boost Trump are "allegations used to make relations between our two nations worse, to delegitimize the presidency of the outgoing U.S. president."
"And in this way, U.S.-Russian relations are all hostage to American domestic affairs. I think this is worse for Americans themselves," Putin said.
Tumult at home, ailing alliances abroad: Why Trump’s America has been a ‘gift’ to Putin
Putin took it a step further and answered a question on recent Russian media investigations into the financial activities of Putin's family and entourage by alleging U.S. interference in Russia's domestic affairs.
“That’s the State Department and U.S. security services. They are the real authors. Anyway, this has clearly been done on their orders. This is absolutely obvious,” Putin said, without offering evidence. He added that “the goal is revenge and attempts to influence public opinion in our country in order to interfere in our domestic life.”
Then he addressed Navalny's poisoning for the first time since the website Bellingcat released a joint investigation Monday detailing how a team of Russian state security officers trailed Navalny for years, including on the trip to Siberia on which he was poisoned in August.
"This is not an investigation. This is an attempt to legitimize the materials provided by American intelligence officers," Putin said. Referring to Navalny as "the patient at the Berlin clinic," he said the opposition leader "is actually supported by U.S. intelligence. Of course he's followed by other intelligence services."
Bellingcat's investigation relied on leaked personal data that is widely available for purchase in Russia.
Putin seemed to confirm that Navalny was being surveilled but denied that Moscow was responsible for his poisoning. He said with a laugh: "Who needs him anyway? If we had really wanted, we'd have finished the job."
Navalny, 44, was in a medically induced coma for more than two weeks after becoming gravely ill during a flight from Siberia to Moscow. The Berlin hospital to which he was later transferred attributed his condition to a toxin similar to the Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok, the same substance that Britain said Russian state security agents used on former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Salisbury, England, in 2018.
The Kremlin has previously claimed that Navalny, who was blocked from running for president against Putin in 2018, works with U.S. intelligence, also without providing any proof.
The more than four-hour news conference took on a new look this year because of the coronavirus. Putin spent the first hour addressing how the country has handled the pandemic, answering questions from his suburban Moscow residence in Novo-Ogaryovo.
Journalists from state, foreign and regional media posed their queries over video link from one of several centers all over the country. Putin also took a handful of questions from ordinary Russians.
Because Putin was one of the last world leaders to congratulate Biden on his win, Thursday was the first time Putin answered questions about their possible future relations, suggesting that the incoming administration might address some of the lingering tensions between the two countries.
Sergey Shnurov, Russian musician and general producer of RTVi television channel, attends Russian President Vladimir Putin's annual end-of-year news conference in Moscow. (Maxim Shemetov/Reuters)
“We believe the U.S. president-elect will sort things out due to his domestic and foreign policy experience and hope that all arising problems — if not all, then at least some of them — will be resolved during the tenure of the next administration,” Putin said.
In response to a query about whether Trump might be offered asylum in Russia, Putin replied that: "I don't think that there is any need for Mr. Trump to come and seek asylum in Russia because he has the support of 50 percent of the American population. He has a huge base of support. He's not going to exit America's political life."
As for his own political future, Putin said he hasn’t decided yet if he’ll seek a fifth term in office when his current one ends in 2024. As part of an approval of a set of constitutional amendments earlier this year, Putin can run for reelection two more times.
“Technically, there is this permission from the people,” Putin said. “Whether to do this or not, I’ll see.”
The first question to Putin on Thursday came from the Far East, about whether he viewed the year as a good or bad one. Putin opted to discuss the pandemic and said that Russia has fared better than most countries. Russia’s 2.7 million total cases are the fourth-most in the world, and new cases have surpassed 25,000 per day. Data published by the state statistics service last week revealed that 30 percent more people died this October than a year ago.
“Despite numerous problem that we face and there are so many problems — like a sea full of problems — but despite that, we managed to cope with them,” he said.
Asked whether he’s been vaccinated with Russia’s Sputnik V jab, Putin, 68, said he hasn’t because it’s not recommended for people over 60 but will “definitely get vaccinated as soon as it becomes possible.”
“Production of this vaccine requires relevant plants, enterprises and hardware all that will be scaled up,” Putin said. “I expect all of these plans to be fulfilled and production of millions of vaccine doses to be ensured next year, at the beginning of the year.”
Putin ended the news conference with a gesture, promising Russian families with children under the age of 7 one-time payments of 5,000 rubles, or about $68.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/putin-annual-conference-russia/2020/12/17/4664afa2-3ed7-11eb-b58b-1623f6267960_story.html


#24
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 18.12.2020
Заглавие: National World digest: Dec. 18, 2020


December 18, 2020
RUSSIA
Sputnik V vaccine uses Twitter to taunt
Sputnik V, Russia’s state-backed coronavirus vaccine, makes a disputable claim that it is the “first registered vaccine against covid-19.” But it may have claimed another first: the first vaccine to have its own dedicated Twitter account.
Sputnik V is not just using Twitter to promote itself — but also to needle its rivals. It’s one part of an aggressive media strategy by the vaccine’s backers, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), to promote a Kremlin-backed product, in part by casting doubt on the alternatives.
The account, which has a modest 10,000 followers so far, began tweeting in November, but messages turned more negative this week. In one tweet posted Thursday, Sputnik V shared a link to a CNBC article and wrote: “You can’t sue Pfizer or Moderna if you have severe Covid vaccine side effects,” referring to two major U.S.-backed vaccines.
The Twitter account is one of several social media accounts, most in English, that RDIF is using to promote the vaccine. An Instagram account has also shared an image of director Oliver Stone with a caption: “first Oscar winner to get vaccinated with Sputnik V.”— Adam Taylor
https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/world-digest-dec-18-2020/2020/12/18/1e13b99e-4148-11eb-8db8-395dedaaa036_story.html


#25
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 18.12.2020
Заглавие: Russian vaccine Sputnik V is using Twitter to needle and undermine its rivals


A Russian medical worker prepares a shot of Russia's Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine on Thursday in Moscow. (Pavel Golovkin/AP)
By Adam Taylor
December 18, 2020
A promotional website for Sputnik V, Russia’s state-backed coronavirus vaccine, proudly claims it is the “first registered vaccine against COVID-19.” Some experts would raise issues with that, but Sputnik V may have claimed another first: The first vaccine to have its own dedicated Twitter account.
Sputnik V is not just using Twitter to promote itself — but also to needle its rivals. It’s one part of an aggressive media strategy by the vaccine’s backers, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), to promote a Kremlin-backed product, in part by casting doubt on the alternatives.
Those who study Russian state propaganda tactics and its use of social media aren’t surprised. “I would expect nothing less of the Sputnik vaccine manufacturers, frankly,” said Nina Jankowicz, an expert on disinformation at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
Privet! Today we are launching the Sputnik V vaccine on social media. Soon you will find here all the information about Sputnik V, the first registered human adenovirus vector-based COVID-19 vaccine. #SputnikV pic.twitter.com/6mM1mWqzsR
— Sputnik V (@sputnikvaccine) November 9, 2020
The account began tweeting in November, but messages turned more negative this week. In one message posted Thursday to Twitter, Sputnik V shared a link to a CNBC article with the headline: “You can’t sue Pfizer or Moderna if you have severe Covid vaccine side effects,” referring to two major U.S.-backed vaccines.
You can’t sue Pfizer or Moderna if you have severe Covid vaccine side effects. The government likely won't compensate you for damages either https://t.co/6bE4WEfqkE
— Sputnik V (@sputnikvaccine) December 17, 2020
Officials in Alaska on Wednesday revealed that a health-care worker in that state had a serious allergic reaction after getting the new coronavirus vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech.
The day before, Sputnik V shared a link to an NBC News article about mRNA — the advanced technology used to create both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines — suggesting that its own technology was safer.
The account pondered the question of how Western media would respond to Sputnik V if it had caused “strong allergic reactions and had four cases of face paralysis in the vaccine arm of clinical trials?”
What would western media reaction to #SputnikV be if it were causing strong allergic reactions and had four cases of face paralysis in the vaccine arm of clinical trials?
— Sputnik V (@sputnikvaccine) December 16, 2020
The concerns raised by the account have some basis in facts — in Britain and the United States, there have been several reports of health-care workers who had a severe allergic reaction after receiving the Pfizer injection.
A Food and Drug Administration review of the results of Pfizer’s Phase 3 trial of its vaccine also found that there were four cases of Bell’s palsy, a temporary paralysis of facial muscles, among those who received doses during the trial.
But experts say that side effects from vaccines are common and that an allergic reaction can be a sign that the vaccine is working. Pfizer has said that the number of cases of Bell’s palsy in the U.S. trial was not statistically significant — around 22,000 received the full doses of the vaccine — and FDA reviewers have said they do not think it was linked to the vaccine.
These explanations are unlikely to stop fringe theories on social media and conspiracy websites. But it is unusual for a vaccine manufacturer to publicly sow seeds of doubt about its rivals on social media.
The Twitter account is one of several social media accounts, most in English, that RDIF is using to promote the Sputnik V vaccine. An Instagram account has also shared images promoting the vaccine, including one of director Oliver Stone with a caption that says it was the “first Oscar winner to get vaccinated with Sputnik V.”
It is not clear precisely who runs the account, or what remit they are given. The account is run by the Sputnik V “team based in Moscow,” according to a direct message on Twitter. The account has a modest 10,000 followers so far.
Much of the social media use is not negative. After it was announced that Sputnik V developers would share data with pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca, the Twitter account suggested the medium had helped.
“The new chapter of vaccine cooperation has started today,” it announced. “We made an offer and AstraZeneca accepted it. It all happened here on Twitter!”
But Russia has used social media to promote its worldview frequently in recent years, with the Russian Embassy in London becoming notorious for tweets that often seemed designed to enrage and undermine the West.
Complaints about Russia’s much-lauded vaccine do appear to have gotten under people’s skin, too. Russia’s vaccine was registered without a Phase 3 trial, and some international experts have said that even though the science behind the vaccine looks sound, they could not back it without more public data.
As the vaccine was rolled out in Russia this month, there were some signs that even the Russian public was staying away from the vaccine, leaving vaccination centers empty and doses in their vials. The Russian government also began rolling out a separate vaccine, the EpiVacCorona, this week.
Kirill Dmitriev, the head of RDIF and an ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin, has criticized other labs that used novel techniques like taking adenoviruses from monkeys or messenger RNA to build their vaccines. Sputnik V uses a more traditional method where different, harmless cold viruses, or human adenoviruses, were engineered so that they could carry a gene for the coronavirus.
Jankowicz said that she saw the provocative tweets as a sign of how fierce the public diplomacy effort was for all countries developing vaccines: 63 vaccine candidates are in human testing, with 18 at the final stages.
In the United States and Britain, President Trump and Prime Minister Boris Johnson have loudly proclaimed their success in developing and rolling out vaccines. But both China and Russia also have rolled out vaccines at remarkable speed, despite concerns about transparency and safety.
“The responsible thing to do would be to communicate about vaccines without a hint of propaganda, but everyone — especially countries like China and Russia, eager to be seen as ‘the good guys’ for once — is keen to cash in on this positive PR opportunity,” Jankowicz said.
The problem may be that this competition could undermine vaccine deployment. “Let’s hope it doesn’t cost lives,” Jankowicz added.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2020/12/18/russia-vaccine-sputnik-twitter/


#26
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 19.12.2020
Заглавие: Chinese and Russian vaccines remain unproven — but desperate countries plan to use them anyway


By Emily Rauhala, 
Eva Douand Robyn Dixon 
December 19, 2020
In the race to vaccinate the world, China and Russia appear headed to becoming international players, as countries buy up doses and push ahead with approvals even before the release of crucial trial data.
Although both countries’ coronavirus vaccine efforts were initially viewed with skepticism, a growing list of nations remains eager to work with Beijing and Moscow to slow the virus’s deadly spread.
Much of this has to do with scarcity. Rich countries have snapped up most of the early doses of the promising vaccines by U.S.-based Moderna and Pfizer, which is working with Germany’s BioNTech. A multilateral effort to equitably distribute doses is moving slowly. For some, China and Russia are the only immediate option.
It also reflects a growing sense that the Chinese and Russian vaccines show some scientific promise and could play a role in ending the pandemic — even as questions about safety and transparency persist.
“The idea that the Russians and Chinese are just not as good at this as we are is just vaccine nationalism,” said Naor Bar-Zeev, an infectious-disease physician and statistical epidemiologist who is an associate professor at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.
“There’s no reason to think these vaccines won’t work,” he said. “But we have not seen Phase 3.”
The latest on the pandemic around the world
The view of China’s and Russia’s vaccines remains mixed, however.
Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen said Tuesday that his country is not ordering a vaccine candidate developed by the Chinese biotech firm Sinovac because it has not been certified by a global body. “Cambodia is not a dustbin . . . and is not a place for a vaccine trial,” he said.
But the questions over China’s and Russia’s candidates have not stopped other countries from moving forward with deals, approvals and vaccinations.
Moscow began distributing the Sputnik V covid-19 shot via 70 clinics on Dec. 5, marking Russia's first mass vaccination against the disease. (Reuters)
Last week, the United Arab Emirates approved a vaccine from China’s Sinopharm for use, claiming it is 86 percent effective without providing much detail. Bahrain quickly followed suit.
Brazil’s most populous state, São Paulo, plans to use the vaccine from China’s Sinovac in what the governor hopes will be a mandatory vaccination push.
Vaccines are coming. Who should get them first?
The developers of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine will share science with Anglo-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca to explore possible advances against the coronavirus, both sides announced Dec. 11.
Turkey expressed doubt about Russia’s offering, only to quickly walk back the criticism. Argentina announced it will start using Sputnik V this month.
The fast-moving decisions are all being made without complete and peer-reviewed data on clinical trials.
“It’s all tied to the results of Phase 3,” said Jennifer Huang Bouey, a researcher focused on China and global health at the Rand Corp. “We haven’t seen anything yet.”
From Bali to Brazil
China has made a bold bid to improve its scientific credentials and further its global reach by engaging in vaccine diplomacy, linking the pandemic fight with other efforts to expand its political and economic ties.
The country has five vaccine candidates in the final stages of trials, which have taken place in regions of strategic importance to Beijing. Testing is underway in more than a dozen countries, including Pakistan, Turkey, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and Brazil.
Mexico’s government said it hoped to finalize a contract with China’s CanSino for supplies of vaccine by the end of the month.
Beijing has faced questions from scientists and officials for rolling out the vaccines before clinical trials were complete. Sinopharm said in November that it had applied for final approval with Chinese regulators.
Sinovac’s vaccine has been politically divisive in countries such as Brazil, with São Paulo’s governor, João Doria, throwing his support behind it and calling it the safest among the options. Brazil’s president, Jair Bolsonaro, a coronavirus skeptic and frequent China critic, opposes his plans.
A state governor said this week that Brazil plans to purchase 46 million doses of Sinovac’s vaccine, according to Reuters.
China’s decision to hold Phase 3 trials around the world has helped build trust in the vaccines, with foreign governments able to oversee and observe the trials themselves.
These on-the-ground trials in other countries have been particularly helpful given the checkered history of China’s vaccine industry. Between the two front-runners, Sinopharm has had vaccine quality scandals in the past, while Sinovac’s CEO has admitted in court to bribing China’s drug regulator over previous products before the pandemic.
Despite corruption and quality scandals, China’s vaccine industry has developed technical proficiency over the years, in part through technology transfers from foreign firms and scientists who return to China after work and studies overseas.
The experience of the SARS pandemic from 2002 to 2004 — concentrated in China — also spurred an urgency for vaccine preparedness within the country.
A 'mistake' to dismiss them
“Some skepticism about Russian and Chinese vaccines may be warranted, but to automatically dismiss these vaccines as ineffective or unsafe would be a mistake,” said Stephen Evans, professor of pharmacoepidemiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
“These countries have many very good scientists, including expertise on vaccines and immunology.”
He also noted that China helped kick off the unprecedented global vaccine effort by publishing “the relevant gene sequence” early in the pandemic.
Evans said the big unknown is what the trials look like. “We do not know that they are weak,” he said. But skepticism is fueled by “a lack of knowledge about the processes and monitoring.”
Shipments of Sinovac’s vaccine have already arrived in Brazil and Indonesia, putting pressure on the nations’ regulators to approve its use.
AstraZeneca and Russia’s Sputnik V lab to share data
In a boost for Russia, AstraZeneca on Dec. 11 said it would soon begin work with the Gamaleya National Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology, the developers of the Sputnik V vaccine, to explore combining components of both vaccines that are based on the common cold virus.
Sputnik V’s developers also have offered to share the Russian vaccine with France’s Sanofi and Britain’s GSK. The offer came when Sanofi and GSK announced that their vaccine would be delayed until the end of next year because results of the Phase 1/2 trial found a low immune response in older adults.
According to the latest update by the Russian Direct Investment Fund, Sputnik V’s efficacy at preventing infection is 91.4 percent and those who contract the coronavirus after receiving the vaccine would not get a “severe case.”
So far, 20,000 people have received both doses of the vaccine in Phase 3 trials.
Denis Logunov, the deputy director of the Gamaleya center, which developed the Sputnik V vaccine, said there were ethical questions about continuing to enroll people in ongoing trials and giving 25 percent the placebo when there was an effective vaccine available. Talks with the Health Ministry and others were underway on the future of the trials.
Russian officials were taken aback last week when Turkey publicly spurned it. Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca told Haberturk news that Turkey had abandoned plans to take the vaccine and went further, casting doubts on Russia’s scientific methods.
Koca reversed himself the same day, calling a news conference to say that Turkey has “no problem in procuring the vaccine produced in Russia” if tests are “successful.” He gave no timetable.
Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said last week he expected “explosive demand” overseas.
Bar-Zeev noted that if countries want to mass distribute vaccines overseas, they will probably eventually seek to “prequalify” through the World Health Organization, which could ease some doubts about safety and efficacy.
“It will get reviewed as all products get reviewed,” he said, “and will need to pass that bar before WHO would support its widespread use.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/vaccines-china-russia-safety/2020/12/18/8c87ba54-3637-11eb-9699-00d311f13d2d_story.html


#27
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 19.12.2020
Заглавие:Israel is starting to vaccinate, but Palestinians may have to wait months


A Palestinian medic wearing a hazmat suit cares for a patient at the Dura public hospital, where coronavirus patients are treated, in the West Bank town of Hebron on Dec. 18. (Hazem Bader/AFP/Getty Images)
By Steve Hendrix
and Shira Rubin
December 19, 2020
JERUSALEM — Israel, like many high-income countries, is moving quickly to roll out newly approved coronavirus vaccines, with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu getting the symbolic first shot Saturday. But next door in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, the prospects for vaccinating almost 5 million Palestinians are far less certain, as financial, political and logistical hurdles could delay inoculations against the raging pandemic for months.
The split highlights not only the tense disparities between Israel and the Palestinian populations it effectively controls, but also the growing divergence between vaccine haves and have-nots as the world enters the pandemic endgame.
The United States, Britain, Russia and other developed countries have already begun administering vaccines to health-care workers, the elderly and other priority groups. Other nations are receiving shipments now.
But poorer populations could be waiting much longer. Internal World Health Organization documents leaked this past week warned that vaccines might not reach some countries until 2024, a delay that could hamper global efforts to contain the virus.
“Nobody is safe until everyone is safe,” said Gerald Rockenschaub, the WHO chief for the Palestinian territories. “It’s in everyone’s interest to ensure that countries that can’t purchase vaccines on the global marketplace have their needs met adequately.”
Few places offer a starker side-by-side example of the gap than Israel and the Palestinian territories.
The Israeli government, starting with some 4 million doses of the just-approved vaccine from Pfizer-BioNTech, is ready to begin inoculating up to 60,000 residents a day through its national health programs. Amid plans to issue “green passports” that will allow the vaccinated greater freedom of movement, hope is rising in Israel that the pandemic is entering its final stages.
But Palestinian leaders say they can’t afford either of the first blockbuster vaccines to hit the market. The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine costs about $20 a dose, and another made by Moderna that the Food and Drug Administration authorized Friday will run between $25 and $35 a shot, according to a WHO review.
Palestinian leaders and international activists say Israel is obligated to ensure that Palestinians are vaccinated as quickly as possible.
“Israel bears moral and humanitarian responsibility for vaccinating the Palestinian population under its control,” said Physicians for Human Rights in an appeal to Israeli leaders Wednesday.
In an interview, Israeli Health Minister Yuli Edelstein rejected that argument. But he acknowledged that it was in Israel’s self-interest to expand vaccinations into an adjacent population that sends thousands of workers into Israel on a daily basis.
“There is no responsibility, but it is in our interest to help as far as the coronavirus is concerned,” said Edelstein, who was among Israeli leaders scheduled to be publicly vaccinated Saturday. “We’ve been doing it for the last year, with equipment and with medicine.”
Edelstein said the country may be able to pass along some of the vaccine stock it is accumulating, but not until it inoculates its own 9 million citizens, including the 20 percent who are Palestinians living in Israel.
“We can’t deny an Israeli citizen a vaccination because we want to help someone else,” he said. “But if there will be extra or a feeling that everyone is feeling safe, then we will.”
The Palestinians need not just financial assistance, but logistical help as well. The Pfizer serum, for example, must be shipped and stored at minus-94 degrees, a cold chain effectively unavailable in Gaza, where electricity is available only eight hours a day.
“We just do not have the technical capabilities for that,” said Ali Abd Rabbo, director of the Palestinian Health Ministry in Gaza. “We have held sessions with the Israeli side in this regard, but until this moment there is no agreement.”
The Palestinians are instead pinning their hopes on a global consortium of 92 low-income countries working to deliver more affordable vaccines. Both Hamas, the militant group that governs Gaza, and the West Bank’s Palestinian Authority have signed up for the program, which aims to vaccinate the most vulnerable 20 percent of each participating nation.
The effort, known as the Gavi Alliance and backed by the WHO, the United Nations, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, is reviewing 14 vaccines still in development around the world. The WHO expects to approve at least some of them for emergency use in January.
But it could well be months before mass vaccinations begin under the program, even as Gaza and the West Bank face a surge of infections.
“We expect something to become available by the end of the first quarter [of 2021], but it’s really difficult to predict,” Rockenschaub said.
Palestinians are also exploring other options. The Palestinian Authority has asked the United Arab Emirates to share some of its supply of a Chinese-made vaccine, according to Salwa Najjab, a West Bank physician and member of the Palestinian coronavirus task force. And Russia has reportedly offered to make up to 4 million doses of its Sputnik V vaccine available, although public health officials said details were vague and formal assurances lacking.
The sun sets over the empty beach during a weekend lockdown to contain the coronavirus pandemic in Gaza City on Dec. 18. (Khalil Hamra/AP)
Whatever arrangements they make with vaccine providers, the Palestinians face the added barrier of Israeli control. Any vaccine will be subject to review by Israeli regulators, who have previously blocked the importation of unapproved drugs.
Health professionals said they expect Israel to recognize vaccines that are approved for emergency use by the WHO, but others may be stopped at checkpoints.
“We don’t have control over our borders,” Najjab said. “We need to coordinate with Israel on that, and everybody is afraid that we can’t get the vaccine.”
The Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories, the Israeli Defense Ministry agency known as COGAT, which coordinates with Palestinian officials, would not comment on any of the specific vaccines. But, in a statement, the agency said it should not be viewed as hindering the Palestinian effort.
“Israel has not denied any request for medical assistance that has reached its doorstep,” the statement said.
Hazem Balousha in Gaza City contributed to this report.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/middle_east/israel-vaccine-palestinians-coronavirus/2020/12/18/f1d8d572-4083-11eb-b58b-1623f6267960_story.html


#28
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 21.12.2020
Заглавие: 107 E.U. regulator authorizes Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, with hopes to speed doses to all 27 member countries


By Chico Harlan
and 
Michael Birnbaum
December 21, 2020
ROME — The European Union's drug regulator on Monday authorized the use of the first coronavirus vaccine for the bloc, enabling member countries to begin inoculations next week in an urgent but complicated fight to ease the pandemic.
The authorization of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine could stand as a symbolic turning point in a pandemic that has killed more than 300,000 Europeans, caused the deepest recession since the E.U.’s formation and sent many countries back into lockdown for the holidays. Countries are also halting flights to and from Britain, alarmed about an emerging variant of the virus detected in England that is said to be more transmittable.
E.U. policymakers have portrayed the vaccine rollout as a chance to show the bloc’s unity in the face of the virus threat. Doses will be allocated to all 27 E.U. nations based on population, not wealth, and each country will pay the same price. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen expressed hope that countries would start the vaccination in unison in the days after Christmas.
In the end, though, the launch may be a bit disunited, with vaccines being administered in a rolling wave in the coming weeks.
Here’s what we know about the new European coronavirus mutation
Some countries have struggled to get in place the ultracold freezers necessary to store the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Others are still tweaking plans about how they will decide who gets the first inoculations — generally, front-line health workers, as well as residents and staffers of nursing homes, but each country has its own list. And the first shipments may be modest: Media in Estonia reported last week that one company — which was not identified — wanted to send 10,000 doses in the first wave, enough for just 5,000 people in the country of 1.3 million.
“We are not yet at a turning point,” Emer Cooke, executive director of the European Medicines Agency, said in announcing the Pfizer-BioNTech authorization. “It will take time to roll out vaccines in sufficiently large numbers to enable all of our citizens to be protected.”
Some health officials are grumbling that Europe has already fallen behind, with the United States, Britain and Canada having authorized the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine earlier this month. The United States has also authorized a vaccine developed by Moderna, which Europe’s regulator will review for authorization on Jan 6.
At an E.U. summit this month, some leaders pushed the European Medicines Agency to speed up the decision-making, and the regulator bumped up its meeting from Dec. 29 to Dec. 21, saying it had received new information from the vaccine producers. E.U. policymakers who have defended the pace say that the best way to ensure widespread public confidence in the safety of the vaccines is not to appear to cut any corners on studies of safety and efficacy.
The European Medicines Agency is using a more fleshed-out process for vaccine approval compared with the United States, which authorized the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine on an emergency basis. The European Commission, the E.U.’s executive branch, will need to sign off on the deal, which von der Leyen said could come later Monday.
“Now we will act fast,” she said on Twitter.
Europe is paying less than U.S. for many coronavirus vaccines
Pfizer, partnering with BioNTech, and Moderna have created promising vaccines that scientists hope will lead to more medical breakthroughs using mRNA. (Joshua Carroll, Brian Monroe/The Washington Post)
The pressures are immense. More than 3,000 people in Europe are dying of the virus every day.
Many E.U. countries, including Italy, Spain and Germany, say they will begin the first shots on Dec. 27. Germany has already built mass-vaccination centers on soccer grounds and old bus depots.
“The primary goal of our vaccination drive is to protect the weakest,” those in nursing homes who are 80 or older, German Health Minister Jens Spahn said.
Denmark, though, said the first shots will not be feasible until early January.
Scientifically, the progress in halting the pathogen has been unprecedented; never before have drugmakers moved so quickly from development to trials, building vaccines that — in the case of Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna — have proved roughly 95 percent effective against the virus in clinical trials. But distribution is proving trickier than development. The United States has already fallen behind schedule, with state governors complaining that they have been receiving fewer doses than initially promised.
The vaccine purchasing in Europe has been a centralized affair, handled largely by the European Commission, which has locked in contracts for 1.3 billion doses of six vaccines in various stages of development.
The E.U. will receive 200 million doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, with an option to buy 100 million more. It bought an additional 80 million doses of the Moderna vaccine, with an option to request another 80 million — but officials have said they don’t expect deliveries from Moderna until later next year.
Some of the other vaccines the E.U. has bet heavily on are further behind in development. After a setback, a vaccine being developed by the French company Sanofi probably will not be ready until late 2021. The E.U. also has a deal with AstraZeneca for 400 million doses of a vaccine developed with the University of Oxford, and though initial data suggests its efficacy is lower — 70 percent overall — it costs less than Pfizer’s and does not need to be frozen.
The German newsmagazine Der Spiegel said Europe erred by buying too little and betting on the wrong producers, while turning down a far larger first-round order from Pfizer-BioNTech.
At least two E.U. countries, Germany and Hungary, have sought to purchase more vaccines on the side, a step that may also ultimately undermine European unity, because the limited supply means that any doses that go exclusively to one country lead to fewer being available for the E.U. as a whole in the short term.
Germany is lining up extra doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, a step Spahn justified by noting that the country had supplied crucial research funding at an early stage of the vaccine’s development. Hungary has bought the Russian Sputnik V vaccine for use within its borders.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/pfizer-covid-vaccine-authorization-europe/2020/12/21/5f75bc04-4187-11eb-b58b-1623f6267960_story.html


#29
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 09.01.2021
Заглавие: Tales from the jab: How people in 6 countries got their vaccines


By Brian Murphy, Steve Hendrix, 
Shira Rubin, Carrie Donovan, Robyn Dixon, Laura Silvia Battagliaand Yvonne Gordon
January 9, 2021
In Moscow, a vaccine appointment is a phone call away. In Israel, a text message arrives. Across Italy, the idea is to make getting inoculated a part of the landscape with kiosks, decorated with a purple flower, in piazzas from the Alps to the Mediterranean.
The United States, which began coronavirus vaccinations Dec. 14, has tried to speed up the delivery of doses amid the many different rules and priorities of the states. Other parts of the world, with more-centralized health-care systems, are mobilizing their initial waves of vaccinations with often more-coordinated strategies.
The Washington Post checked in with people in six countries on their experiences as they took the first steps to join the growing ranks of the vaccinated.
A week into Israel’s vaccine rollout, Rina Abadi got a text: Are you ready for your shot?
The Tel Aviv tech worker is only 32, but Israel’s national health system kicked out an automatic appointment because she has a chronic autoimmune disorder.
Israel has vaccinated a higher percentage of its residents than any other country — more than 18 percent — in part because of its highly digitized and streamlined medical network. Abadi was eager to get the vaccine, but had not requested a shot as the program focused on health workers and the elderly.
She clicked on a link, selected a time for the following day and picked a location a five-minute bike ride from her house. The system confirmed the appointment and instantly scheduled a second one for the follow-up shot 21 days later.
At the pop-up vaccine station in a clinic basement on Dec. 29, she swiped her health ID card and was shown straight to a booth. The nurse asked a few health questions and registered the answers on a phone app, then injected Abadi’s left arm.
“I didn’t even have a chance to get excited — it was so fast,” Abadi said.
But she did get emotional. As the nurse filled the syringe, she teared up at the thought of getting on an elevator without fear, arriving home without thoughts of infecting her 9-month-old son.
“I have my complaints about Israel and the government,” she said. “But I’ve never had a complaint about the health-care system.”
— Steve Hendrix and Shira Rubin
A Russian army member receives an injection with Sputnik V vaccine at a clinic in Rostov-on-Don, Russia, on Dec. 22. (Sergey Pivovarov/Reuters)
Moscow: Anastasia Kvasha, doctoral student, 29
Anastasia Kvasha received the Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine on Dec. 30 in Moscow. (Courtesy of Anastasia Kvasha)
Anastasia Kvasha decided to get Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine a few days before New Year’s. She had thought about it since Russia began vaccination programs on Dec. 7.
“I finally made up my mind,” she said.
She said the process was “quite easy.” She called the clinic in her neighborhood, “and in a couple of minutes, I had an appointment to get the shot two days later,” she said.
On Dec. 30, she waited in a special area set aside for people getting the vaccine. After filling in a brief form, she underwent a short examination by a doctor and received a booklet with information on potential reactions to the vaccine.
She was called into a doctor’s office, where she received the vaccine. Then she waited in the hallway while the vaccination certificate was prepared. The whole process took about 40 minutes.
“That was it,” she said, “Not much bureaucracy or waiting, quite efficient and straightforward.”
The next day, her temperature rose slightly. She also had body aches, weakness and mild pain at the spot of the injection.
“But in a couple of days,” she said, “all the symptoms were gone.”
Russia’s vaccine program has opened wide. On Dec. 26, it expanded to people over 60. In Moscow, people in many pursuits — including education, law enforcement, banking, the public sector, media and construction trades — are eligible.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund, which is backing the vaccine, says 1 million Russians have been vaccinated so far.
“There was a constant stream of people arriving to get the shot, most of whom seem to be elderly,” Kvasha said.
— Robyn Dixon
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/coronavirus-vaccine-israel-russia-canada/2021/01/08/29de4308-5033-11eb-a1f5-fdaf28cfca90_story.html


#30
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 12.01.2021
Заглавие: Israel’s vaccine success can’t hide a deeper divide


By Ishaan Tharoor
Columnist 
January 12, 2021
You’re reading an excerpt from the Today’s WorldView newsletter. Sign up to get the rest, including news from around the globe, interesting ideas and opinions to know, sent to your inbox every weekday.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu receives the second dose of a coronavirus vaccine Saturday at Sheba Medical Center in Ramat Gan, Israel. (Miriam Elster/AP)
Israel is the site of what seems to be a remarkable vaccination success story. It leads the world in per capita coronavirus vaccinations, with more than 1.5 million Israelis already having received the shot. Authorities estimate officials can administer the vaccine to some 2 million Israelis before the end of the month and hope to have the bulk of the population vaccinated by the end of March, if not earlier.
Even as infection rates spike again, the country’s small size and the efficiency of its public health system have made it an ideal place to carry out a program of mass inoculation. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, dogged by corruption charges and facing a fourth election since 2019, has yoked his political fortunes to the vaccination drive.
“I have my complaints about Israel and the government,” Rina Abadi, a Tel Aviv-based tech worker, told my colleagues recently after receiving the vaccine. “But I’ve never had a complaint about the health-care system.”
Still, around a third of the 14 million people living between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea are not included in this vaccination campaign. Israel has distributed vaccines to Jewish settlers in the West Bank, but not to Palestinians there or in the cramped, impoverished Gaza Strip. Israeli officials contend that these Palestinians don’t fall under their jurisdiction under the terms of the Oslo accords and that it is the job of the Palestinian Authority to procure and distribute vaccines in the occupied territories.
“I don’t think that there’s anyone in this country, whatever his or her views might be, that can imagine that I would be taking a vaccine from the Israeli citizen, and, with all the goodwill, give it to our neighbors,” Israeli Health Minister Yuli Edelstein told Britain’s Sky News over the weekend.
“There could hardly be a better illustration of how Israeli lives are valued above Palestinian ones,” Saleh Higazi, deputy regional director for the Middle East and North Africa at Amnesty International, said in a statement.
On Monday, Palestinian officials announced plans to obtain and administer Britain’s AstraZeneca vaccine, as well as Russia’s Sputnik V shot. They also expect to receive assistance from the World Health Organization’s Covax initiative, which seeks to distribute vaccines to some of the world’s more disadvantaged countries. Those could be administered as early as next month.
That the Palestinians may not have formally requested assistance from Israel is not surprising, given how low an ebb ties are at between the two parties. They also lack the super-cold storage facilities needed to house Pfizer’s vaccine, which has been the most widely distributed one in Israel.
Israel’s critics argue that the disparity in vaccine distribution underscores a starker reality. Whatever the political arrangement between the Israeli government and the Palestinian Authority — an institution intended only to be a transitional entity for a future Palestinian state that’s now impossible to imagine — they contend that, under the terms of Geneva Conventions, Israel as an occupying power has a responsibility for those living under its occupation.
In a statement over the weekend, the Palestinian Foreign Ministry said “the search by the Palestinian leadership to secure the vaccines from various sources doesn’t exempt Israel from its responsibilities towards the Palestinian people in providing the vaccines.” It accused Israel of “ignoring its duties as an occupation power” and “committing racial discrimination against the Palestinian people.”
“Where budgetary shortages resulting from the long-term restrictions imposed by the occupation and blockade limit the ability of the Palestinian Authority to purchase and distribute vaccines, Israel must provide the necessary funds, as part of its legal obligations,” read a statement by a coalition of Israeli and Palestinian health and human rights organizations last month.
Human rights groups are also petitioning the Israeli High Court over the government’s decision to withhold vaccines from Palestinian prisoners in Israeli detention, even though conditions in these facilities make inmates particularly vulnerable to contracting the virus.
Israeli security concerns shape every dimension of Palestinian life. Israeli control is also likely to influence the ability to effectively distribute vaccines to Palestinians, especially in Gaza, which is under blockade and run by the Islamist political movement Hamas.
“We are in Gaza, sure it will take a year, not a month,” Lina Mohammad Abu Daff, a 44-year-old Gaza City resident who works at the local health ministry, told the Wall Street Journal, conveying her cynicism over current plans.
“Places like the occupied territories, where the health infrastructure is weak and it is difficult to maintain basic social distancing or hygiene requirements, should be prioritized in vaccination efforts,” wrote Yara Hawari, a fellow at Al-Shabaka, the Palestinian Policy Network. “And yet, because of prevailing structures of oppression, they won’t be.”
“There’s a basic moral obligation,” Hagai El-Ad, executive director of B’Tselem, an Israeli human rights group, told Today’s WorldView. “There’s one government, one regime, that basically controls everything from the river to the sea. We decide what comes in and out, who comes in and out.” He added that there should be no legal or administrative argument for Israelis “to hide behind not addressing something as basic as the health of the people under your control.”
The depth of that control has only grown more glaring in recent years. Under Netanyahu’s rule, demolitions of Palestinian homes and expansion of Israeli settlements continue apace. With the blessing of the Trump administration, Israel’s right-wing government has also seemingly foreclosed the possibility of a fully sovereign Palestinian state and is still mulling annexation of parts of the West Bank.
On Tuesday, B’Tselem published a new position paper making the case that the prevailing status quo ought to be seen as that of an “apartheid” regime.
“A regime that uses laws, practices and organized violence to cement the supremacy of one group over another is an apartheid regime,” read the report. “Israeli apartheid, which promotes the supremacy of Jews over Palestinians, was not born in one day or of a single speech. It is a process that has gradually grown more institutionalized and explicit, with mechanisms introduced over time in law and practice to promote Jewish supremacy.”
It concluded: “As painful as it may be to look reality in the eye, it is more painful to live under a boot.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/01/12/israel-palestine-coronavirus-vaccine-disparity-analysis/


#31
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 20.01.2021
Заглавие: China turbocharges bid to discredit Western vaccines, spread virus conspiracy theories


By Gerry Shih
January 20, 2021 at 10:09 p.m. EST
TAIPEI, Taiwan — Europe and Australia should reject the "hasty" American vaccines linked to elderly deaths, Chinese scientists say. Western media refuses to investigate the dangers of the Pfizer-BioNTech shot, fumed a state television anchor. The coronavirus could be a plot involving former U.S. defense secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, suggested a state media editor. And the real origin of the virus? Perhaps the U.S. Army's Fort Detrick should be investigated, intoned a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman.
One year after the coronavirus was first widely reported in China, the country’s state media and officials are again pitching a flood of theories about its origins (not China) and which vaccines are safe (not American).
Recent reports, claims by officials and unchecked online speculation appear to be part of a renewed Chinese push to cast blame for the pandemic elsewhere and undermine public confidence in Western vaccines.
International researchers say some Chinese theories, such as cold-chain packaging carrying the virus to China, could be possible, if unlikely. And most experts say that the side effects of new vaccines — and the definitive story of how and where the pandemic emerged — indeed require further investigation.
But China’s aggressive promotion of its narratives is muddying the waters precisely when a World Health Organization team in Wuhan is seeking to investigate the virus’s origins. The drumbeat of Chinese skepticism toward Western vaccines — one a joint production between U.S. pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and German biotech firm BioNTech, another from U.S. biotech company Moderna — ramped up in recent weeks as clinical data showed vaccines from Chinese pharmaceutical firms potentially lagging U.S. rivals.
Politics frustrate WHO mission to search for origins of coronavirus in China
“This defensiveness is all certainly against the background of the WHO investigation and a return of China to the media spotlight,” said Yanzhong Huang, a senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations.
After Chinese officials and researchers spent months telling the public that China’s vaccines would win the global development race, Huang added, “there’s now a gap between expectation and reality that needed to be addressed, so you see this effort to disparage Western vaccines.”
Since early in the pandemic, Chinese leader Xi Jinping has avoided discussion of China’s role in the contagion and cast China as a world leader that would help others — particularly developing nations — recover. In speeches, including at the World Health Assembly, Xi has pledged that China would promote global vaccine cooperation.
In state media, the tone has been decidedly less lofty.
After one of China’s leading vaccine contenders, CoronaVac from Beijing-based Sinovac, made headlines after Brazilian researchers reported new findings that its efficacy reached only about 50 percent, several state media personalities questioned why the side effects and dangers of Pfizer-BioNTech’s vaccine were not also scrutinized.
The nationalist Global Times newspaper ran stories that seized on the deaths of 23 elderly Norwegians who had taken the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, and quoted Chinese experts who urged countries from Norway to Australia to halt its use.
Hu Xijin, the Global Times editor, wrote recently that the Western media was “out to destroy” the reputation of Chinese vaccines and that China needed to fight back. Days later, state outlets published photos of leaders, including Indonesia’s Joko Widodo and Dubai’s Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, receiving Chinese vaccines.
Coronavirus-ravaged Brazil places hopes on Chinese vaccine that works only half the time
In many ways, the Chinese rhetoric mirrors that of state media in Russia, which has touted its homegrown vaccine. Sputnik V, like the Chinese offerings, is traditionally developed with inactivated dead viruses, unlike the messenger-RNA vaccines made by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna.
For months, Russian officials such as Kirill Dmitriev, head of the Russian Direct sovereign wealth fund, have suggested that mRNA-based vaccines could damage fertility. Russian state media has bemoaned how Pfizer-BioNTech’s shot has been “imposed on literally everyone.”
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says studies on mRNA vaccine side effects are ongoing, but experts do not believe they pose a specific risk to recipients who are pregnant. Clinical trials suggest that side effects of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine include fevers, chills, tiredness and headache in about 9 percent of recipients. About 0.6 percent reported severe adverse events, results show.
Concerns about mRNA vaccines have sometimes been voiced by the West, but in China, they have been a running theme. As U.S. firms have released early results in recent months, warnings from prominent Chinese experts have grown to a degree that has surprised observers.
George Gao, the head of China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention, recently pondered publicly whether the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines posed safety issues because mRNA vaccines of this type were used to treat cancer and had never been given to healthy people before.
Zhong Nanshan, who is considered a national hero for his work on the SARS and covid-19 outbreaks and sometimes speaks on behalf of the government, dismissed Pfizer-BioNTech’s and Moderna’s clinical trials as “very insufficient” in November. China’s vaccines, Zhong added, “are developed with rigor.”
China bars two members of WHO coronavirus mission as depleted team reaches Wuhan
Dali Yang, a political science professor at the University of Chicago who researches China’s health system, said that he was surprised a prominent health official like Gao would cast doubt on U.S. vaccines but that it was not clear whether such comments represented a concerted government strategy. Chinese factories, after all, have been contracted to produce millions of doses of Pfizer-BioNTech’s vaccine, and it’s still possible that China could buy the vaccine to inoculate elderly citizens because the Chinese vaccines have not been tested on people over 59, he said.
“If they really played this up, they could make it very difficult for themselves,” Yang said.
The Chinese experts’ warnings have been mild compared with state and influential social media, where ominous reports and theories have gained traction.
The Chinese Internet lit up after Jin Canrong, a foreign policy adviser to the government, posted an essay by Xiong Lei, a senior state media editor, pointing out that Rumsfeld, through his shareholding as the former chairman of Gilead Sciences, has profited from Gilead selling antiviral drugs for outbreaks that have struck China.
“It’s not right that we ignore this,” Xiong wrote. “The United States is not without a record of biological warfare.”
On Jan. 19, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying pushed speculation about a U.S. Army biological warfare program. “If the United States truly respects facts, it should open the biological lab at Fort Detrick, give more transparency to issues like its 200-plus overseas bio labs, invite WHO experts to conduct origin-tracing in the United States, and respond to the concerns from the international community,” she said in a briefing.
Some government agencies have appeared happy to stoke nationalism. Officials in Changzhou, in eastern China, claimed in December that a survey they conducted showed that 78 percent of respondents would prefer to take a Chinese vaccine. Just 7 percent said they would prefer a foreign one. In the minority are those who have tried to lower the temperature.
Conspiracy theorists blame U.S. for coronavirus. China is happy to encourage them.
Zhou Yebin, a senior researcher at Chicago-based AbbVie who has a large following in China as a science writer, urged Chinese to stop viewing the vaccine race as a “zero-sum game” and worrying whether the Chinese vaccines can compete with Western options. At a recent forum, the chief of Shanghai’s pandemic response, Zhang Wenhong, was asked whether Chinese should opt for a U.S. or Chinese vaccine.
Zhang dismissed the question and said he only wants to get 80 percent of the population inoculated. “It’s all good as long as you get it,” he said.
Jennifer Huang Bouey, a Peking University-trained epidemiologist who is now a senior policy researcher at the Rand Corp. in Washington, said that she has anecdotally observed an uptick even in her WeChat circles — comprising highly educated Chinese researchers — of articles, including one on the British Medical Journal’s website, questioning the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine’s efficacy.
Some Chinese researchers felt that Chinese vaccines were being unfairly criticized, Bouey said.
“So many people are watching China’s push to reach global standards, and it’s so high-stakes,” she said. “The pushback and generally the negative views from Western countries make them very insecure.”
 https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/asia_pacific/vaccines-coronavirus-china-conspiracy-theories/2021/01/20/89bd3d2a-5a2d-11eb-a849-6f9423a75ffd_story.html


#32
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 21.12.2020
Заглавие: Finally getting the shot felt good. Thinking of those still waiting is what stings.


By Steve Hendrix
January 21, 2021 at 5:00 a.m. EST
JERUSALEM — Like so many of my fellow Earthlings, I have been waiting for this moment for 10 months, since it became clear that this was the big one, the one the experts warned us about, the pathogen capable of bringing humanity to a standstill.
It has been the most universal experience imaginable, a pandemic that enveloped the globe, reaching inexorably into every continent and country. Month after month, the question “How have you been?” has answered itself: The same as you, the same as everyone. Locked down. Muddling through. Waiting.
Waiting for this moment, the most individual of endings to such a collective experience: an appointment in a plastic chair for a one-on-one encounter with a hypodermic needle. On Sunday, I was injected with the Pfizer coronavirus vaccine in a Jerusalem basketball arena doing duty as an inoculation center. Like many, I teared up as first my wife and then I got the shot we have all been waiting for through four seasons of anxiety, boredom and, for millions, grief.
So why did getting the shot make me think so much about those who haven’t?
I am 56 and suffer no underlying conditions that make me particularly susceptible to covid-19’s worst. There are many at far greater risk than I am who see no sign of getting the shot any time soon, including my elderly in-laws in Delaware and Palestinians living in the West Bank just miles from my apartment. There are health workers — in Pittsburgh and Johannesburg alike — who are heading into their second year of battling this virus protected only by masks and gloves, even as the superpower of immunity begins percolating in my nonessential bloodstream.
The arrival of the vaccine is creating tiers of haves and have-nots, the anointed and the frustrated, the essential and the stuck. The length of your pandemic endgame — whether you are days or months from feeling safe — has largely come down to geography and governance.
I’m lucky to live in a country that has achieved remarkable success in rolling out its vaccine program. Israel has already inoculated almost a third of its population, 2.8 million people, including a half-million who have gotten the second dose.
The pace is due in part to its small population of 9 million and its beloved universal health-care system. Its four nationalized heath maintenance organizations track every citizen’s digitized health records through an ID number, making it easier to contact and trace those eligible for the shot. American immigrants here shake their heads over what they hear from media and their stateside families of 50 separate U.S. vaccine programs struggling to get traction in 50 states.
The inoculation campaign has taken on a political tinge here. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu constantly promotes his own role in securing millions of doses, the very first of which he arranged to have injected into his right biceps on national television. National elections are scheduled for March, and Netanyahu, who has been roundly blamed for an overall coronavirus response that has the country mired in its third nationwide lockdown, is largely pinning his reelection hopes on keeping Israel ahead of the global vaccination pack.
The pharmaceutical companies have been supportive in part because Israel, which reportedly paid double what some European countries have paid, makes for an appealing test lab for a vaccine effort that roared into existence in record time. Part of the country’s deal with Pfizer is to let it mine data from the national health database. The government said privacy will be guarded.
But those are largely side issues for those waiting for their own shot at the shot. There had been talk here, as in other countries, of including journalists on the list of essential recipients. I appreciated the point of that argument every time I left my house to report on the pandemic’s effects around Israel and the West Bank.
In recent months, I have taken my lungs to ultra-Orthodox Jewish neighborhoods where the virus is raging, into a hospital’s intensive care covid-19 unit and into an assisted-living facility packed with octogenarian Holocaust survivors. And that’s not to mention airplane-heavy working trips to Istanbul, Beirut and Dubai. I have not been particularly scared of getting sick, but I have been terrified of becoming a vector.
In the end, it didn’t require any special status for me and other journalists to get the vaccine. Israel has begun including all foreign residents in its race to achieve herd immunity. Anyone with a B1 visa is eligible to join citizens at a vaccination center when their age bracket is announced, like gate agents boarding a plane from the rear. Right now, they are calling for those 45 and older to step up.
We were torn about how public to be after our shots, or the second round we are booked to get in about two weeks. Posting a vaccine selfie seemed like boasting when so many that we care about have no needles in sight. In particular, I wondered how my friends on the West Bank would feel about my benefiting from a system that has declined to do as much for them.
Israel is inoculating Arab Israelis, the 2 million Palestinians who remained in the country after the 1948 war, as well as those living in East Jerusalem under Israel’s control. But a debate over Israel’s responsibility to extend its vaccine campaign to cover 5 million Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza has erupted as the latest flash point in the decades-long conflict.
Israel is starting to vaccinate, but Palestinians may have to wait months
Human rights groups say Israel is morally and legally obliged to protect the population it effectively controls. Israel says the 30-year-old Oslo accords make the Palestinian Authority responsible. Palestinian leaders say they plan to rely on international donations, including thousands of doses of the Russian Sputnik vaccine that were scheduled to arrive this week but were delayed.
The Palestinians I’ve talked to were mostly glad for me, and for the broader “us.” One friend in Ramallah, in the West Bank, said it was good I was protected given how much time I spend jumping back and forth across the checkpoints. Better for him if I’m not a carrier.
But another also admitted it was hard to see me, and others, climbing out of the pandemic when he and his family and so many others can do nothing but sit and worry. https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/middle_east/israel-coronavirus-vaccine-shot/2021/01/20/81df57d2-5a64-11eb-a849-6f9423a75ffd_story.html


#33
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 21.01.2021
Заглавие: E.U. leaders consider travel bans, faster vaccine rollout to contain coronavirus variants


By Michael Birnbaum
January 21, 2021 at 6:18 p.m. EST
European leaders, struggling with a slow vaccination effort and fearful that highly contagious coronavirus variants could rapidly overwhelm their medical systems, moved Thursday to begin reimposing border restrictions and to speed the distribution of vaccines — even those not yet approved for use.
“We are increasingly concerned about different variants of the virus,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told reporters after a virtual summit of European Union leaders, saying that although the bloc intends to keep borders open for trade, it may restrict nonessentialtravel.
Th e leaders held back from endorsing a specific plan for borders. But Germany — which as the richest and most populous E.U. member often drives its discussions — proposed strict, temporary bans on travel to the E.U. from countries where mutated forms of the coronavirus are already prevalent, including Britain. The proposal would restrict E.U. citizens from returning to their home countries if they are currently in an affected country, and would therefore be more stringent than previous border measures.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Thursday that sharp action was necessary in the face of the more transmissible strain first identified in Britain.
“I can’t stress this strongly enough: We need to slow down the spread of this mutant virus, we mustn’t wait until this virus flares up here and is reflected in explosive new numbers,” she told reporters before the E.U. discussion. “We’d have a stronger wave of the virus, probably stronger than anything we’ve seen so far.”
The leaders also agreed to begin distributing doses of AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine across Europe, so rollout can start as soon as that vaccine is approved, possibly around mid-February. Although Britain is already administering AstraZeneca inoculations, European and U.S. regulators have questioned whether there is enough data to show the vaccine is effective among older people.
Until now, the E.U. has focused on a rapid but by-the-book medical authorization process to build public confidence in the safety of the vaccines. But some countries are pushing the bloc’s medical regulator to move faster.
“We are working with other E.U. countries for the fastest possible, unbureaucratic approval of @AstraZeneca and other vaccines,” Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz wrote on Twitter during the leaders’ summit.
The European Commission earlier this week set a goal that 70 percent of E.U. residents would be vaccinated by the summer — an ambitious effort that, despite efforts to remain united, may ultimately highlight disparities among member countries.
The pace of vaccinations already has varied sharply among countries, even though they all were given access to the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines simultaneously. Denmark has administered 3.2 doses for every 100 residents. The Netherlands has given out only 0.6 doses for the same number.
The 70 percent goal struck some public health experts as overly aspirational.
In France, “we would need to vaccinate at least twice as fast as now,” said Odile Launay, an infectious-disease specialist at the University of Paris and a member of the committee advising French authorities on vaccine strategy. “And the other question: Will 70 percent of the population want to get vaccinated?”
Hours before Thursday’s meeting, Hungary announced it was breaking with the other 26 members of the E.U. to authorize the AstraZeneca and Russian-made Sputnik vaccines within its borders. The country’s national regulator said that it would maintain careful testing of the Sputnik vaccine, but that because the AstraZeneca vaccine was already approved in Britain, no further tests for that one were necessary.
The E.U. approves vaccines as a bloc, but individual countries can offer emergency authorizations. The Hungarian move may create pressure on other countries to follow suit, although many E.U. leaders have said that a unified strategy will be the most effective, because it will build the most confidence across the union of 450 million people.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/covid-variant-europe-travel-astrazeneca/2021/01/21/b598ed94-5b5f-11eb-a849-6f9423a75ffd_story.html


#34
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 22.01.2021
Заглавие: Israel recommends coronavirus vaccine for pregnant women, marking a shift as some countries reassess risk


By Miriam Berger
January 22, 2021 at 7:00 a.m. EST
When some countries began rolling out coronavirus vaccines late last year, each put forward its own criteria for which populations to prioritize — a list that, for the most part, excluded or cautioned against the inclusion of women who were breastfeeding, pregnant or expected soon to be pregnant.
This precaution resulted from an absence of information rather than any directly negative data. Pregnant women were excluded from the first round of human trials, as is common for such studies.
But in some places, including Israel and Britain, the guidance has shifted as scientists learned more about the vaccines and fears mounted over highly transmissible variants of the virus.
Scientists have gleaned relevant information from ongoing studies, while comparable vaccines that have been around longer do not carry safety concerns for pregnant women, so the benefits increasingly outweigh the risks, said Marian Knight, a professor of maternal and child population health at Oxford University.
Medical research again leaves pregnant women waiting for a vaccine — this time for coronavirus
On Tuesday, Israel’s Health Ministry and council for gynecological health updated its guidance to recommend the coronavirus vaccine for pregnant women, especially those with preexisting health issues or who work in close contact with the public.
“Pregnant women who become infected and sick with the virus have a higher incidence of serious illness from the disease than their cohorts in the general population,” the ministry said in a statement, echoing findings from studies in other countries, including Canada, Sweden and the United States.
The change followed a recent rise in Israel of reported hospitalization among pregnant women with covid-19, some of whom developed complications with their pregnancies. Israel is providing its citizens with the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine.
“In light of reports about women and young couples avoiding the vaccine for fear of it damaging fertility, it is important to stress that there are neither facts nor a scientific basis pointing to damage to fertility as a result of any of the recognized vaccines,” Israel’s fertility research association wrote in a recent position paper, according to the newspaper Ha’aretz.
Catch up on the most important developments in the pandemic with our coronavirus newsletter. All stories in it are free to access.
In December, Britain, among others, did not at first include women who were pregnant, breastfeeding, or could soon be pregnant in its vaccine program, citing a lack of evidence due to the exclusion from Phase 3 human trials.
The policy drew criticism from some women’s health advocates and public health experts. In Britain and worldwide, women are in the majority in many front-line professions confronting the virus, such as health-care work and teaching.
In the weeks since, however, Britain has shifted its stance on the Moderna and Pfizer-BioNtech vaccines available there. British health officials now recommend that pregnant women consult with their doctor to weigh the risks. They no longer exclude lactating women or women considering a pregnancy, citing a lack of cause for concern.
“There is no known risk with giving inactivated virus or bacterial vaccines or toxoids during pregnancy or whilst breastfeeding,” Public Health England said in a statement Jan. 5. “However, the coronavirus vaccines have not yet been tested in pregnancy, so it has been advised that until more information is available, pregnant women should not routinely have these vaccines.”
It added, “If a coronavirus vaccine is given to a pregnant woman, she should be reassured that the vaccine does not contain live SARS-CoV-2 virus and therefore cannot cause covid-19 infection in her or in her baby.”
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Health Canada have gone further, recommending that pregnant women who want to get the vaccine do so in consultation with their doctor. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has said that coronavirus vaccines should not be denied to pregnant women.
“This is a natural course of a vaccine going through the usual clinical trials,” said Alyson Kelvin, a researcher at the Canadian Center for Vaccinology and Dalhousie University. Some women who did not know they were pregnant at the time, for example, were part of various Phase 3 trials. Scientists have been able to glean information from these cases and update their guidance.
“As small amounts of data come up, then it can be reexamined and pregnant women can start to be included,” she said.
Still, there remains much to be learned about the short- and long-term effects of the coronavirus vaccines that have been rolled out, which is why public health experts remain cautious with their recommendations.
“It’s very scary when you’re pregnant,” Kelvin said. “You’re vulnerable. And there’s a lot of misinformation out there.”
An article published late last year in the Lancet, a leading British medical journal, concluded that “inclusion of pregnant women in clinical treatment trials is urgently needed to identify effective covid-19 treatment for this population” such as “effective therapies that might improve maternal health, pregnancy, and birth outcomes, and avoid the delay of developing treatment recommendations for pregnant women.”
The European Medicines Agency said in December that the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine should be used by pregnant women only on a case-by-case basis depending on a patient’s other risks factors, citing the current lack of clinical trials.
Last week, India began unrolling a massive vaccination effort using a locally manufactured version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine and a vaccine called Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech, an Indian pharmaceutical company. The country’s ministry of health has said that women who are pregnant or lactating cannot get the vaccine under the current emergency authorization.
Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine has also yet to cleared by the government for pregnant women, though a trial to test it on children and those who are pregnant will begin in the spring, according to Russia’s RIA Novosti news agency.
China has not provided any specific guidance regarding pregnancies and its vaccine. Coronavac, one of the Chinese-developed vaccines, will soon be tested on pregnant women and children in Brazil, according to China’s state-run Global Times, citing a Brazilian official. Brazil had been considering the inclusion pregnant women as part of its priority groups for early vaccination, according to Reuters, but now is allocating it on a case-by-case basis.
Other countries, such as South Korea, have not yet provided guidance as they prepare to begin inoculation programs in the coming weeks.
Fears over an increased risk of severe infection and hospitalization for pregnant women with covid-19 have mounted amid the spread of highly transmissible virus variants. Younger populations have been particularly hit hard in some countries. There is no evidence that these variants are more harmful to pregnant women, Knight said, but more people, including pregnant women, are likely to be exposed to the virus and its resulting risks.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/01/22/coronavirus-vaccine-pregnant-women-israel-risks/


#35
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 24.01.2021
Заглавие: The Americas


By Mary Beth Sheridan
and 
Kevin Sieff
January 24, 2021 at 9:51 p.m. EST
MEXICO CITY — Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador announced Sunday night that he had tested positive for the coronavirus and was experiencing "light" symptoms. He said he would step away from his daily news conferences while being treated for the illness.
López Obrador has frequently minimized the severity of the pandemic and has rarely worn a mask, even as covid-19 has killed nearly 150,000 people in Mexico — the fourth-highest total in the world, and the 19th-highest as a percentage of the population, according to figures compiled by Johns Hopkins University.
After Mexico’s 70-day shutdown at the beginning of the pandemic, the president resumed his frequent travel through the country. He has been criticized for appearing in selfies with his supporters.
“I am sorry to inform you that I am infected with COVID-19,” López Obrador said in a tweet. “The symptoms are light, but I am getting medical treatment. As always, I am optimistic. We will carry on.”
He added that he would remain in his living quarters at the National Palace and would have a telephone conversation as scheduled on Monday with Russian President Vladimir Putin to discuss shipments to Mexico of the Sputnik V vaccine.
At 67, and with hypertension, López Obrador could be at risk of developing complications from the virus. He had a heart attack in 2013. Mexico has administered about 600,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine, but the president has said he would wait for his shot until after front-line medical personnel and older citizens had received theirs.
Mexican authorities on Sunday reported 10,872 more confirmed cases of the coronavirus and 530 deaths. In total, the government has tallied more than 1.7 million cases. But the real total is thought to be higher: A recent government study based on antibody tests estimated that one-quarter of the population of about 126 million people has been infected.
The president has been regularly tested for the virus and insists that he keeps strict social-distancing rules in his office.
López Obrador, a folksy icon of the left, took office in December 2018. He has remained popular, with approval ratings of about 60 percent, despite the mounting death toll from covid-19 and a severe economic crisis linked to the pandemic.
But the president’s decisions to rarely wear a mask in public, and his statements playing down the pandemic, have frustrated many in Mexico.
“In a country where government and president are often the same thing, and where the president is a continuous presence both in social and traditional media, his minimizing of the pandemic and his refusal to wear a mask have definitely encouraged people to downplay the dangers of this deadly virus,” said Esteban Illades, a prominent Mexican journalist.
“Hopefully, the president’s covid diagnosis will show the general population that not wearing a mask makes it easier to become infected.”
Several cabinet members previously tested positive for the coronavirus. The president was in the state of San Luis Potosí over the weekend and was photographed without a mask.
Over the past two days, López Obrador has been in close contact with a range of senior Mexican officials, including the secretary of defense and the secretary of foreign relations, along with a number of well-known Mexican business leaders. There is now concern that the virus could spread widely within those circles.
Jaime Rodríguez Calderón, the governor of Nuevo León, met with López Obrador on Saturday and said he would “watch my symptoms so that if any appear, I’ll take a test.”
Carlos Bravo Regidor, a political analyst, said: “If you think about it, it is kind of surprising that [López Obrador] didn’t catch it before, particularly given his reluctance to wear a mask and his insistence on still having plenty of meetings with officials and even traveling, most recently to Guerrero, San Luis Potosí and Nuevo León.”
He noted that many public servants who frequently wear masks take them off in his presence — “probably as a very screwed-up sign of discipline or deference.”
Early in the pandemic, López Obrador was mocked for saying he could ward off the virus with religious amulets. His tone has since become more serious. The Mexico City region went into yet another shutdown in mid-December as cases soared during a period of holiday parties and shopping.
Critics have assailed the government for its handling of the pandemic, noting that the country has among the lowest percentage of testing of any nation in the hemisphere. López Obrador has defended his record, noting that Mexico scaled up its hospital capacity considerably and has placed orders for more than 100,000 doses of vaccine.
Contributing to the country’s high death toll are a number of factors, including widespread comorbidities such as obesity and diabetes, and Mexicans’ reluctance to go to the hospital until their cases are far advanced. In addition, nearly 60 percent of the population works in the informal sector, and many have needed to go to their jobs despite the pandemic precautions. López Obrador has been criticized for not approving a major stimulus program to help such people stay home.
The news of the president’s diagnosis ignited an outpouring of good wishes, both from his critics and supporters.
“You’re going to be fine President. I’m sure of that. Your strength, conviction and love for life and for what you represent give us this certainty,” tweeted Claudia Sheinbaum, the mayor of Mexico City and a close ally of the president. She survived the coronavirus last year.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/mexico-president-amlo-tests-positive-coronavirus/2021/01/24/f2305e36-5ea7-11eb-9061-07abcc1f9229_story.html


#36
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 26.01.2021
Заглавие: Only one of the world’s 29 poorest countries has started coronavirus vaccinations


By Adam Taylor
and 
Danielle Paquette
January 26, 2021 at 11:23 a.m. EST
In more than 50 countries, most of them wealthy, coronavirus vaccination efforts are well underway, with some 20 million doses already distributed in the United States alone. But most poorer nations have yet to even begin.
World Health Organization officials said last week that the West African nation of Guinea is the only low-income country of 29 to begin vaccinating. And those efforts have been limited in scope — just 55 people out of the population of more than 12 million have received doses so far.
The initiative, using the Russia-backed Sputnik V vaccine, began Dec. 30 as part of a pilot program carried out on an “experimental basis,” Sakoba Keita, director general of Guinea’s National Health Security Agency, told The Washington Post.
The Russian government proposed the idea, in a “climate of good bilateral relations,” and Guinea accepted, Keita said. Most of the initial vaccinations went to government officials: President Alpha Condé, 82, received a shot in early January.
 “We intend to initiate the first real campaign by the end of this first quarter,” Keita said, referring to a wider effort, likely using the Sputnik V vaccine and others procured separately.
“At the moment I cannot provide an exact date because we have not had any announcement of the supply of the first batch of vaccines, which could come to Guinea from any of our suppliers,” he said. “Negotiations are ongoing.”
The unusual arrangement, under which the country has received limited Sputnik V doses, appeared to be the result of close ties between Condé and Russian President Vladimir Putin. Russian business interests connected to the mining of bauxite, a key ingredient in aluminum production, has led Moscow to rekindle its Soviet-era relationship with Conakry, Guinea’s capital.
Three nights of anti-lockdown violence in the Netherlands
The slow-to-static pace of vaccinations in low-income countries such as Guinea, which has a gross domestic product per capita of less than $1,000 per year, has been condemned by public health experts, who say that the hoarding of vaccine doses by wealthier nations could extend the pandemic.
“We now face the real danger that even as vaccines bring hope to some, they become another brick in the wall of inequality between the worlds of the world’s haves and have-nots,” WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said at a briefing last week.
Thomas J. Bollyky, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, said that although the trend was “depressing and disheartening,” it had been evident for months that wealthy nations had been buying up most of the supply of vaccines.
“I can’t say it’s surprising,” said Bollyky. “In every previous pandemic where we have our global health crisis, where there has been limited supplies of medical intervention, wealthy nations have hoarded.”
Ranu S. Dhillon, an infectious-disease expert at Harvard Medical School, said he was concerned that allowing the virus to spread widely in countries without the means to procure vaccines could allow more variants to emerge, against which vaccines could be less effective.
Two days of total lockdown in a crowded Hong Kong neighborhood
“It’s a matter of luck, but I think there’s a high likelihood that [a variant] would make its way to Conakry, from Conakry to elsewhere, and then eventually circulate in other parts of the world,” he said.
Bollyky voiced a similar concern. Vaccine inequality “absolutely prolongs the pandemic, but it also creates health risks for high-income nations as well,” he said. “As we’ve seen, this is a virus. It mutates.”
Although Covax, an international effort to source and distribute vaccines backed by the WHO, had hoped to alleviate the inequities by pooling resources to preorder vaccines, the initiative had struggled with funding and found wealthy nations snapped up much of the global supply of vaccines.
Matshidiso Moeti, the WHO’s regional director for Africa, said last week that it hoped the first Covax vaccine doses would reach Africa in March.
So far, the only African country to begin a nationwide vaccination program is the Seychelles, a middle-income island nation with a population of fewer than 100,000. Morocco is due to begin vaccinations this week with the AstraZeneca-developed vaccine after receiving 2 million doses.
Keita said that Guinea was in negotiations with four suppliers of vaccines: Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Sputnik V and the China-backed company Sinopharm. Negotiations with Sputnik V were furthest along, with 1.6 million doses expected for 2021. Pfizer doses would be procured through the Covax program, Keita said.
Unlike many of their peers, the vaccines developed in Russia and China have not released full testing data, leading to skepticism among some public health officials.
Guinea, along with many of its West African neighbors, has been spared from a large-scale coronavirus outbreak, with more than 14,000 cases and 81 deaths, according to government data.
The country was one of the epicenters of an Ebola outbreak in 2014 that killed more than 2,500 people.
Dhillon, who advised the president of Guinea during the Ebola outbreak, said that both Guinean public health officials such as Keita and the general public had experience with a pandemic, which probably proved useful.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/01/26/guinea-covid-vaccinations-poor-countries/


#37
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 02.02.2021
Заглавие: Russian vaccine Sputnik V more than 90% effective in interim trial


By Adam Taylor
 and 
Carolyn Y. Johnson
 
February 2, 2021 at 2:48 p.m. EST
This article is free to access.
Why?
Correction: An earlier version of this article inaccurately described the purpose of Mexican Deputy Health Minister Hugo López-Gatell’s January visit to Argentina. He visited to see the rollout of the Sputnik V vaccine, not Phase 3 trials.
The Russian coronavirus vaccine, Sputnik V, was 92 percent effective at preventing symptomatic illness in a large clinical trial, robust protection that puts it in line with top vaccines developed in the United States and Europe, according to results published in a peer-reviewed journal Tuesday.
The Russian vaccine effort has been criticized for being too rushed, elevating nationalistic competition over scientific evidence. The publication in the Lancet, a British medical journal, marks the first large-scale, peer-reviewed results to be published showing the performance of Sputnik V — despite the fact that the vaccine has been in broad use in Russia and is being rolled out to other countries.
Outside experts said the data convincingly shows the vaccine works. But because the trial was conducted in Russia in the fall, before the spread of virus variants that have shown signs of eroding vaccine effectiveness, questions loom about how protective the vaccine will be in the face of emerging threats.
“Results are great,” Hildegund C.J. Ertl, a vaccine scientist at the Wistar Institute, said in an email. “Good safety profile, more than 90% efficacy across all age groups, 100% efficacy against severe disease or death, can be stored in the fridge and low cost. What more would we want?”
Kirill Dmitriev, chief of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, a state fund that had backed the vaccine, said the results proved that criticism of the vaccine was unfounded.
“All our critics are keeping quiet at the moment because they are running out of arguments. We have addressed all of their concerns. Sputnik V has proven itself to be one of the most effective and safest vaccines in the world,” he said at a news conference.
The news was also a relief to foreign officials who had been relying on the Russian-made vaccine to fill gaps left in their supplies. Mexico’s deputy health minister, Hugo López-Gatell, flew to Argentina in January to follow the country’s rollout of of Sputnik V. López-Gatell said Tuesday the public had felt “a concern, a worry that is totally legitimate about whether the [Russian] vaccine is effective.”
He said he hoped the results published in the Lancet put those anxieties to rest.
“This gives us an enormous opportunity to accelerate the pace of vaccination against covid in Mexico,” he said. Mexican authorities are expected to formally approve emergency use of the Russian vaccine Tuesday.
Almost 20,000 participants took part in the Phase 3 trial, with roughly three-quarters receiving the vaccine, while the remainder received a placebo.
The results appear to make Sputnik V the third coronavirus vaccine to have an efficacy of more than 90 percent, along with the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines. But experts have repeatedly cautioned that it can be misleading to compare performance in different vaccine trials, because of differences in how the trials are designed and when and where they were conducted.
Vaccines that have been tested more recently, in areas of the world where variants have become dominant, such as vaccine candidates from Johnson & Johnson and Novavax, appear less efficacious against a form of the virus that is rapidly becoming dominant.
Peter Jay Hotez, a vaccine scientist at Baylor College of Medicine, said he was concerned that antibody levels sparked by the Russian vaccine appeared relatively modest. While the vaccine may have offered robust protection against the form of the virus circulating in Russia in September and November, laboratory tests have demonstrated that antibodies triggered by other vaccines are less effective against the variants, particularly one that originated in South Africa and is rapidly spreading globally.
“The worry is that when you’re starting out low like this … as the South African variant comes through, this [vaccine] may no longer protect,” Hotez said. “I think that’s what’s probably going to happen, and the Russians are going to look at recasting this vaccine in some way.”
In the trial, participants who received Sputnik V were administered two shots 21 days apart. The regimen uses two different harmless cold viruses, called adenoviruses, to infect cells with a gene that carries the blueprint for the spike protein found on the surface of the coronavirus. By using two different viruses to deliver the gene, the vaccine regimen avoids one possible problem with such an approach — that the body may build an immune response to the cold virus that delivers the gene, blocking the booster shot’s ability to rev up the immune system.
The technology is similar to that used by the single-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which reported 66 percent efficacy overall at preventing moderate and severe disease four weeks after the shot, and the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, which E.U. regulators have judged to be about 60 percent effective. AstraZeneca and Gamaleya, the Russian research institute that developed Sputnik V, announced in December that they are working together to explore whether combinations of their vaccines might be beneficial.
The Russian vaccine, like those others, appeared to be most effective at preventing serious cases of disease. In the Johnson & Johnson trial, there were no cases of hospitalization or death related to covid-19, the illness caused by the virus, in people receiving the vaccine. In the Russian trial, there were no cases of moderate or severe covid-19 cases among vaccinated people, while there were 20 cases among those who received placebo. In the AstraZeneca-Oxford trial, there were 10 covid-19-related hospitalizations, all among people who received placebo.
“The vaccine appears to induce decent protection, consistent with their previous press releases,” said Konstantin Chumakov, a member of the Global Virus Network, an international coalition working on viral threats. “It confirms the expectations that adenovirus-based vaccines can be effective, at least in the short run. Now, it remains to be seen how long the immunity will last, and whether it will protect against the variant strains.”
There were 62 confirmed cases of covid-19 in the placebo group, compared with 16 infected people found in the vaccine group, none of whom had severe symptoms.
The trial included more than 2,000 volunteers who were older than 60. Results did not differ statistically for this older group.
There were limited side effects in those who received Sputnik V, the developers said, with 94 percent of adverse effects described as mild, including flu-like symptoms and reactions at the injection site.
After receiving approval Aug. 11 in Russia, the vaccine’s developers marketed Sputnik V aggressively, setting up a website that dubbed the vaccine the “first registered vaccine against COVID-19″ and using a Twitter account to not only promote it but cast doubt upon rivals.
Sputnik V’s developers say the vaccine is already registered in 12 countries. It remains the only vaccine to be used in a low-income country, after being used on a trial basis in the West African nation of Guinea.
In mid-January, Moscow said it was “open to immediate cooperation” with Egypt and could provide the Sputnik V vaccine within days, adding more supply throughout 2021, the Russian Embassy in Cairo said in a statement last month.
Russia was also “ready to transfer technology to produce this vaccine” in Egypt, which the embassy said had “an adequate production base.”
The statement made clear that Moscow viewed the Sputnik V vaccine as an opportunity to solidify its burgeoning relationship with the government of Egyptian President Abdel Fatah al-Sissi and gain influence in Africa and the Middle East.
“This will not only allow for the widest possible vaccination campaign, but it will also help develop the economic and trade capabilities of our Egyptian friends,” the embassy said.
Russia would like Egypt to become an export hub for the Sputnik V vaccine in Africa, Egypt’s ambassador to Moscow told Egypt’s El Watan newspaper.
Last month, Egyptian health specialists performed clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine, according to El Watan, which quoted an Egyptian health ministry aide saying that “the Russian vaccine is currently a priority for research.”
The Sputnik V vaccine has not been approved or registered in Egypt.
The Sissi government received its first shipment of the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine in December to vaccinate front-line medical workers.
This week, Egypt received its first 50,000-dose shipment of the AstraZeneca vaccine, also to vaccinate health workers, the country’s cabinet announced Tuesday. The government has ordered 20 million AstraZeneca doses from India, according to Al Ahram, a state-run newspaper.
On Tuesday, Algerian officials said that they will start producing the Sputnik V vaccine in coming weeks and that the first batch of 50,000 doses arrived in Algeria last Thursday. Kamel Mansouri, head of Algeria’s national agency for pharmaceuticals, said on national television Tuesday that Algeria and Russia were in advanced discussions to manufacture the vaccine at a government-owned facility.
Sudarsan Raghavan in Cairo and Mary Beth Sheridan in Mexico City contributed to this report.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/02/02/sputnik-v-russia-lancet/


#38
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 02.02.2021
Заглавие: U.S. to start distributing coronavirus vaccines directly to pharmacies


By Erin Cunningham, 
Paul Schemm, Lateshia Beachum
and Hannah Knowles
February 2, 2021 at 11:45 p.m. EST
The Sputnik V vaccine is already in use in Russia and several other nations. (Yuri Kochetkov/EPA-EFE/Shutterstock)
The Russian coronavirus vaccine, Sputnik V, was 92 percent effective at preventing symptomatic illness in a large clinical trial, robust protection that puts it in line with top vaccines developed in the United States and Europe, according to results published in a peer-reviewed journal Tuesday.
The Russian vaccine effort has been criticized for being too rushed, elevating nationalistic competition over scientific evidence. The publication in the Lancet, a British medical journal, marks the first large-scale, peer-reviewed results to be published showing the performance of Sputnik V — despite the fact that the vaccine has been in broad use in Russia and is being rolled out to other countries.
Outside experts said the data convincingly shows the vaccine works. But because the trial was conducted in Russia in the fall, before the spread of virus variants that have shown signs of eroding vaccine effectiveness, questions loom about how protective the vaccine will be in the face of emerging threats.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2021/02/02/covid-coronavirus-latest-updates/


#38
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 03.02.2021
Заглавие: Stuck between the pandemic and politics, some countries ban rivals’ vaccines


By Adam Taylor
February 3, 2021 at 8:33 a.m. EST
Governments around the world are desperate for coronavirus vaccines, with many battling publicly for limited doses and accusing others of hoarding. Yet amid this rush, some countries are not only refusing potential doses produced by rivals but officially banning them.
Ukraine recently banned Russian vaccines, despite new peer-reviewed data that suggests a high efficiency for Moscow’s leading candidate, Sputnik V. The Iranian government, on the other hand, has banned all U.S.- and British-made vaccines and approved Sputnik V.
In Taiwan, where officials have spoken out since last year against vaccines made in China, authorities recently reiterated that imports of these vaccines are banned and warned that Taiwanese civilians living in China could face quarantine when they return home.
It is an inversion of the logic of vaccine nationalism, which has led powerful nations to scoop up as many doses as they can in hopes of emerging from the pandemic. More than 80 million vaccine doses have been given out in more than 50 countries, with some speeding well ahead.
But Ukraine, Iran and Taiwan have not formally begun their vaccination programs. And while Taiwan has been widely praised for its successful handling of the pandemic, Ukraine and Iran have struggled, resulting in considerable death tolls.
To experts, it’s an alarming, although not necessarily surprising, trend.
“It’s a combination of political considerations, whether they even have the option [of acquiring the vaccine], as well as the concerns about effectiveness and safety of the vaccines,” said Yanzhong Huang, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
Pavlo Kovtoniuk, Ukraine’s deputy minister of health from 2016 to 2019, said Kyiv’s concern with Moscow-backed vaccines was not just political but a matter of national security.
“Over the last few decades, and especially during the previous seven years of undeclared war, Ukraine has well learned what hybrid warfare is,” Kovtoniuk said.
Ukraine
Despite growing political anger over a lack of vaccine in the country, Ukrainian lawmakers last week approved a bill that officially banned vaccines made in Russia.
With a population of more than 40 million, Ukraine is one of the largest European countries to not begin its formal vaccine rollout. President Volodymyr Zelensky is facing record-low approval ratings amid a pandemic that has infected 1.25 million and caused more than 23,000 deaths.
Part of the concern is about aspects of safety and efficiency: Phase 3 testing data for Sputnik V was released long after the vaccine was rolled out in Russia.
But while new data released Tuesday may ease scientific concerns, broader national tensions remain. Since 2014, Ukraine has had a tense relationship with Russia, which has backed separatist rebels in the country’s east and annexed the Crimean Peninsula.
The Russian government had already started administering Sputnik V in Crimea, which is viewed as part of Ukraine by most international powers. This week, Russian-backed separatist areas in eastern Ukraine also began using the vaccine.
“It’s reasonable to say — as the Russians are saying, loudly — that vaccine access should transcend geopolitics, and everybody should get high-quality vaccines from wherever they can,” said Judyth Twigg, a professor at Virginia Commonwealth University who tracks public health in Ukraine and Russia.
“But it’s also naive to ignore the geopolitical implications,” Twigg added.
While Ukraine is unlikely to reverse its decision on Russian-backed vaccines, at this stage it has few alternatives.
Through the global Covax program, Kyiv secured 8 million doses of the vaccine developed by U.S. pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech. The first round, due later this month, is expected to bring only 200,000 doses.
Ukraine also turned to Beijing to bolster its supplies, signing a deal for 1.8 million doses of China’s Sinovac vaccine in December.
Kovtoniuk said that if Ukraine cannot get more U.S. or European vaccines, it might turn to more Chinese producers. He said it was Russia, not Ukraine, that was politicizing vaccine supply. “It is a matter of politics and influence, first of all for Russia, not for Ukraine,” he said.
Iran
Iran has been hit badly by the coronavirus, reporting more than 1.42 million cases and almost 60,000 deaths. But in January, the country’s supreme leader announced that the country had banned the import of vaccines made in the United States or Britain.
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei made the announcement in a televised address Jan. 8, calling the vaccines “forbidden.” The supreme leader named the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine as one of the products that would be banned, despite its approval by other nations and high reported efficacy.
“They are completely untrustworthy,” he said. “If they were able to create a vaccine … why do they want to give it to us? Why don’t they use it themselves?”
Iran approved Sputnik V in late January and was hoping to jointly manufacture some doses. State media has reported that the first doses of Sputnik V are expected to arrive this week. Iran is also expected to eventually receive 1 million vaccine doses from China.
Amir Afkhami, an expert on the country’s public health system at George Washington University, said that while Iran has been relatively successful in treating recent pandemics, the Iranian supreme leader has “a long history of conspiratorial constructs and mind-set around biomedical issues.”
Afkhami said there were some practical reasons that Iran might favor a Russian vaccine rather than a U.S.-backed vaccine — at an estimated $9.95 per dose, Sputnik V is probably one of the cheaper vaccines. However, he said that the justification was probably an attempt to “portray the regime as competent in view of the many missteps it’s had during the pandemic.”
Khamenei’s move to block some foreign vaccines came amid Iranian claims that U.S. financial sanctions were blocking access to Covax, which has bought doses of a number of U.S.- and British-backed vaccines.
The Iranian Medical Council, the country’s main physicians association, pushed back on the decision after Khamenei’s announcement. “All decisions should be based on science,” the group said in a public letter.
Taiwan
Taiwanese officials reiterated last month that vaccines made in China were banned from import, with the island’s Mainland Affairs Council telling Reuters that vaccination was a medical matter and that it “should not be used as political propaganda.”
The announcement came after reports that China, which claims sovereignty over self-governing Taiwan, was offering free domestically produced vaccine to the roughly 400,000 Taiwanese citizens who live in China.
Taiwan’s government has cast doubt on vaccines made by Chinese companies such as Sinopharm and Sinovac, publicizing rules that say anyone who receives the vaccines would be required to quarantine upon arrival in Taiwan.
Huang said there were genuine health concerns about Chinese-made vaccines. Like the developers of Sputnik V, Chinese developers had not released full Phase 3 data before making their vaccines available. Early data from some countries suggested they were notably less effective than some rivals.
“There are political concerns, but there are also big concerns about the safety and effectiveness of China-made vaccines,” Huang said.
Although vaccinations are not expected to begin until March, Taiwan has procured around 15 million doses for its population of 25 million. Ten million of the doses come directly from British-Swedish firm AstraZeneca and 5 million through the Covax program.
A representative of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office in the United States said that negotiations were ongoing for an additional 5 million doses.
However, Taiwan has a luxury that Ukraine and Iran do not have — a relatively contained outbreak. With only 912 confirmed cases, eight deaths and tightly controlled borders, the island has resumed relatively normal life, although mass gatherings remain discouraged.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/02/03/ukraine-russia-iran-vaccines/


#39
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 05.02.2021
Заглавие: As Europe’s vaccination efforts falter, Russia and China are now seen as options


By Loveday Morris
February 5, 2021 at 10:02 a.m. EST
BERLIN — As the European Union's vaccination program stumbles, Russia and China are poised to fill the gap — with Moscow opening talks to produce vaccines in the heart of Europe and both building political cachet as they supply those scrambling for shots on the bloc's fringes.
Vaccines produced in Russia and China are already on the program in parts of the Balkans and Eastern Europe outside the European Union.
Speaking to the Atlantic Council on Thursday, Macron called China’s vaccine efforts a “clear diplomatic success” which is “a little bit humiliating for us.” He and German Chancellor Angela Merkel have expressed their openness to using vaccines from Moscow and Beijing if E.U. regulatory approval is granted.
That prospect may not be far off, though data, particularly on the Chinese vaccines, remains murky. 
Developers of the Sputnik V vaccine — riding high on peer-reviewed trial results published Tuesday in the Lancet that put its efficacy alongside the West’s best offerings — said this week they expect E.U. clearance by March. They have already started knocking on doors in Germany to find a manufacturing partner.
The European Medicines Agency said it is providing scientific advice for applications by Sputnik V and one of the Chinese vaccines, Sinovac, though neither has yet submitted a request for E.U. approval.
Your questions on the coronavirus vaccines, answered
From a health standpoint, any vaccine in an arm can help stop the pandemic or save a life. But the E. U.’s struggles to competently roll out its own program — using U.S.- and European-made vaccines — has left Russia and China appearing as possible saviors as well as potentially necessary partners.
The prospect of the Sputnik vaccine’s inroads into Europe comes as Germany is already under pressure to take a tougher line on Moscow following the poisoning and jailing of opposition leader Alexei Navalny. A planned gas pipeline from Russia to Germany is under particular scrutiny.
“With the controversies, the arguments and the finger pointing, the E.U. looks like a clown show,” said David Fidler, senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations. “There’s no question in my mind that there was dancing on the tables in Moscow and Beijing about this.”
'Global vaccine queue'
Pharmaceutical industry insiders have pointed at slow ordering and haggling over price as the reason the E. U. has stumbled. E. U. officials also have said they have been left with an unfair share of the burden of supply shortfalls by British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca.
People wait to receive the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine in Belgrade, Serbia, on Feb. 3. (Marko Djurica/Reuters)
Other vaccine candidates ordered by the European Union have been held up in trials, while deliveries of the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine — developed in Germany — were also temporarily disrupted.
Amid the squabbling, it is two countries outside the bloc that are leading the continent’s vaccination charts: newly Brexited Britain, with AstraZeneca and Pfizer, and yet-to-join Serbia, which is using Russia’s Sputnik V and China’s Sinopharm.
In Serbia, slightly more than 7 percent of people have had their first dose of vaccine, compared to 2.4 percent in Germany, a rate in line with the rest of the E. U., according to Bloomberg News’s vaccination tracker. Some 15 percent of people have received a vaccine dose in Britain.
What you need to know about the coronavirus variants
“Serbia is vaccinating faster,” conceded Merkel in a television interviewon Tuesday, citing their use of the Chinese vaccine. “We have always said that anyone who is authorized by the European Medical Agency is very welcome.”
Merkel’s acknowledgment of Serbia’s successful look east also appears to leave little hope for smaller countries that may have been hoping for Western vaccine assistance.
And some in Europe are particularly keen to keep Moscow’s influence at bay.
The parliament in Ukraine, which lost Crimea to Russian annexation in 2014, has banned Russian vaccines, with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky calling on Europe for more assistance. “The richest found themselves first in the global vaccine queue,” he said in December.
Meanwhile, Sputnik V is already being supplied to the rebel-held area in eastern Ukraine, according to local press reports.
Sputnik diplomacy
Russia has made little attempt to veil that it’s vaccine diplomacy is part of a wider push by President Vladimir Putin to assert influence abroad, choosing a vaccine name that evokes the space race during the Cold War with the West.
“The problem is that — especially in smaller countries — pragmatic business with Russia and political influence is hard to separate,” said Péter Krekó, director of Political Capital, an independent, Budapest-based think tank. “The Russian strategy to pick at the coherence of the European Union and to find the weakest links and assert influence is clearly visible and already successful.”
Beijing has claimed it won’t use its vaccines for diplomatic leverage, but in public remarks, officials have linked the vaccine to greater cooperation and outreach. Any vaccine partnership in Europe is likely to raise alarms in Washington.
China and Russia are using vaccines to expand influence. The U.S. is on the sidelines.
A few months ago, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban had seemed an outlier within the E. U. by opening discussions on possibly having Sputnik V manufactured locally.
But now, Sputnik V’s developers, the Gamaleya Institute and the Russian Direct Investment Fund, are actively looking for a German partner for a possible tie-up on production, according to Germany’s health ministry, which confirmed that they had approached the German biotech firm IDT Biologika. The company declined to comment on the discussions.
“If a vaccine is safe and effective, regardless of the country in which it was manufactured, then of course it can help to cope with the pandemic,” German Health Minister Jens Spahn told Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung in an interview published Sunday.
Germany’s favorable comments toward Russia’s and China’s vaccines have already been jumped on by Orban, who has charged ahead without approval from E. U. regulators, with both Sputnik V and Sinopharm approved for use in the country.
“With the Russian vaccine at least, Orban can say we were thinking ahead of Europe,” Krekó said. “Right now he can say we were pro-Sputnik, before it was cool.”
Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, who has long played the E. U. off its rivals in Moscow and Beijing, was left to appeal to China for help. Beijing responded quickly — although it’s still unclear how much of the vaccine was a gift and how much was a purchase.
European countries later followed up with aid, but it was too late to change the perception in Serbia that China was opening up with assistance at the same time countries in the E.U. were cutting it off.
'A result of policy mistakes'
Now, it’s a similar picture for smaller countries that may increasingly see Serbia’s route as the only path.
The World Health Organization’s Covax program, which aims to supply vaccines to countries that can’t afford it, had received pledges from the E.U. to supply doses. But the aid has not materialized amid chaos and delays in the E.U.’s efforts to buy vaccines for itsel
“They’ve now got to take seriously Russia and China on vaccines,” Fidler said. “That’s a result of how wicked this pandemic is, but it is also a result of policy mistakes.”
In his talk with the Atlantic Council, Macron said that he hopes that in the long run, he believes that Covax can be “more efficient” than other efforts in serving developing countries.
“If we put all together our financing and commitments, we can provide to these countries a number of doses without any comparison to the ones provided by China in the coming weeks and months,” said Macron.
But Russia and China have had a head start. Production and certification of the Russian vaccine in Europe could increase the credibility of Sputnik V and speed up vaccination among Europe’s neighbors, said Joanna Hosa, deputy director of the wider Europe program at the European Council on Foreign Relations.
 “The primary objective that the European Union has is to ensure that the people are vaccinated,” she said. “I think in this case, the European Union will try to close its eyes to the downside of having Russia distribute vaccine.”
It’s not a problem if Hungary and others want to use Russian and Chinese vaccines to protect their citizens, Krekó said.
“The problem is if it’s communicated in a way that it’s only our Eastern friends that can help us in a time of trouble,” he added.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/europe-vaccines-russia-china-germany-serbia/2021/02/04/cd1f674c-655d-11eb-bab8-707f8769d785_story.html




#40
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 08.02.2021
Заглавие: The Technology 202: Facebook is still freezing all its political donations. Eventually, it may have to make a choice.


By Cat Zakrzewski
Technology policy reporter 
February 8, 2021 at 9:30 a.m. EST
with Aaron Schaffer
Our top tabs
Russian news outlets are promoting Moscow’s coronavirus vaccine on social media.
Russia Today and Sputnik have been boosting Russia's coronavirus vaccine while raising doubts about Western vaccines. (Pavel Golovkin/AP)
The Russian operation is targeting people in Spanish-language countries with a campaign that suggests Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine is safer than vaccines developed in the United States, the New York Times’s Sheera Frenkel, Maria Abi-Habib and Julian Barnes report. 
“Almost everything they are promoting about the vaccine is manipulated and put out without context,” Bret Schafer, a fellow with the Alliance for Securing Democracy, an advocacy group that tracks Russian disinformation, told the Times. “Every negative story or issue that has come out about a U.S.-made vaccine is amplified, while they flood the zone with any positive report about the Russian vaccine.”
Intelligence officials spotted an uptick in the Russian campaign after the Sputnik V vaccine was approved in August. The campaign has intensified since then, with the State Department saying that Russia is also “seeking to sow distrust” in the United States about other vaccines. 
Two of Latin America’s most influential social media accounts — for Russian news outlets Russia Today and Sputnik — have been involved in the campaign. RT told the Times that the posts highlighted by the newspaper were “a cherry-picked fraction of our coverage,” while Sputnik did not respond to the paper’s request for comment.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/02/08/technology-202-facebook-is-still-freezing-all-its-political-donations-eventually-it-may-have-make-choice/


#41


Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 08.02.2021
Заглавие: How Russian biotech trampled protocols — and challenged the West — in race for Sputnik V vaccine




By Robyn Dixon
February 8, 2021 at 8:51 a.m. EST
MOSCOW — Russian science — and President Vladimir Putin's ambitions of turning the country into a global technology powerhouse — is having something of a moment.
Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine now has a globally recognized seal of approval after British medical journal the Lancet published a peer-reviewed paper last week that put the vaccine in the same league as Western doses — with 91.6 percent efficacy 21 days after the first shot and 91.8 percent for those over 60 years old.
For Russia’s biotech industry, the results are heady validation after facing Western skepticism, fueled largely by Russia’s decision to release the vaccine before medical trials were complete — even using researchers as test subjects.
It's also a powerful calling card for Sputnik in a world desperate to expand vaccine supply lines.
Sputnik V is registered in at least 16 other countries or territories, mainly in the former Soviet Union, the Middle East and Latin America. The European Union, facing vaccine supply shortfalls, is now looking at possibly clearing the way for Sputnik and a Chinese vaccine.
Sputnik's apparent success capped an audacious, and at times seemingly reckless, push that reflected Russia's capacity for scientific improvisation. Russian experts piggybacked on existing vaccines developed in the Gamaleya National Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology but ran roughshod over normal scientific protocols.
After the fall of the Soviet Union, funding for science collapsed and researchers flocked to the West. Putin has tried to re-energize stagnant Russian science, pouring money into universities and research labs. In 2018, he called for more published research and practical applications.
In the past decade, Russia has built several cutting-edge science institutions such the Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology, also called Skoltech, outside Moscow. But a lingering Soviet mentality sets bureaucratic barriers for collaboration with foreign scientists or imports of research materials.
Sputnik as 'outlier'
Ilya Yasny, head of scientific research at Moscow-based investment fund Inbio Ventures, called the Sputnik V development "more of an outlier" than a signal that Russian medical science has emerged as a serious global contender.
“The main problem is regulation,” he said. “Our laws and guidelines are, I would say, 15 years behind the European Union.”
Three years ago, Putin announced a national research strategy that promised 900 new laboratories, including 15 world-class research centers focused on mathematics, genomics, materials research and robotics.
Yasny said many Russian drug developers still see the global standard for clinical trials — three stages and broad demographic testing — as “unnecessary hurdles.”
To gain lasting credibility, experts say, Russian scientists need to publish more papers in peer-reviewed international journals like the Lancet and collaborate with foreign scientists. But Russia is heading in the other direction.
It has been trailing the world for many years in publications in major international scientific journals, according to a study of 22 million scientific papers from 2005 to 2017 by Vit Machacek and Martin Srholec from the Institute for Democracy and Economic Analysis in Prague. Scandals around plagiarism and duplication in Russian scientific research saw the Russian Academy of Sciences announce the retraction of more than 800 scientific papers in January 2020.
Putin’s 2012 “Project 5-100” poured money into select Russian universities, targeting 21 institutions and aiming to get five into the top 100 globally by 2020. It failed. Only one, Lomonosov Moscow State University, made it to No. 84 in the QS World University rankings. The Times Higher Education rankings included none.
Russian and Soviet science has always focused the most resources on nuclear physics, weapons and space. Putin often boasts of the country’s deployment of hypersonic missiles, a development that could presage an arms race.
Still, Russia has chalked up some solid achievements in medical research, including the development of an Ebola vaccine and a vaccine for Middle East respiratory syndrome, or MERS, another coronavirus outbreak first reported in 2012.
And money is flowing. On Friday, Putin dubbed 2021 as Russia’s “Year of Science,” and the government pledged science and medical research funding of $280 billion to 2030.
Lancet as 'checkmate'
Russians, too, are slowly warming to Sputnik after some initial hesitation. A survey published Feb. 2 by the Levada Center, an independent polling agency, found only 38 percent of Russians were willing to be vaccinated in December. Of those who were unwilling, 30 percent planned to wait for the results of clinical trials.
At the dowdy first-floor corridor in Moscow municipal clinic No. 5, nurse Irina Vasilyeva syringed up 0.5 milliliters of Gam-COVID-Vak — otherwise known as Sputnik V. She sighed as queues for the vaccine grew.
“It seems as if the whole of Russia decided to get vaccinated today,” she said on a holiday morning, Russian Christmas Eve on Jan. 6.
Russian officials, meanwhile, have basked in the Lancet glow.
“There are no arguments left for critics of this vaccine. The article in the Lancet is a checkmate,” said Kirill Dmitriev, head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, which backed the vaccine’s development.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov cited the research published in the Lancet as evidence that Russia was right to register the vaccine before Phase 3 trials.
Stephen Morrison, director of the Global Health Policy Center at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, noted the Lancet’s validation came at “a good moment” for Russia as the E.U. struggles with its slow vaccine rollout.
But so far, no drug or vaccine developed by Russia alone has received approval for use across the E.U. — the next potential big step for Sputnik V on the international stage.
Supply glitches and other problems have left E.U. supplies low with its two main vaccines: one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, and another by U.S.-based Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Wednesday that Sputnik was welcome in Europe if it won approval.
“It does say something about the quality and integrity of the scientific enterprise within Russia, which a lot of people disparage or dismiss as decayed and obsolete and underfinanced and underpowered, and that so many of their scientists had fled to greener pastures in Europe and North America,” Morrison said. “This would seem to fly in the face of that.”
David Holden, Regius professor of infectious diseases at Imperial College London, said Sputnik “appears to have been well designed,” in an interview commenting on the Lancet paper.
“Overall,” he said, “I think it’s very encouraging indeed.”
Scientific shortcuts
Yet Russian researchers cut some corners to get there.
Gamaleya chief Alexander Ginzburg and dozens of other colleagues injected themselves with the vaccine in April even before it had been tested on monkeys. He said Russia fast-tracked the vaccine by merely tweaking a MERS vaccine they had already developed.
But a Germany-based Russian science journalist and molecular biologist, Irina Yakutenko, called the Sputnik push “not a good way to do science.”
“There was not enough research on animals before they started to use it on people,” she said.
The global race for a coronavirus vaccine could lead to this generation’s Sputnik moment
“I hope they won’t decide that now we can develop drugs using this shortcut way,” Yakutenko added. “To develop drugs, you need the best medical science, and you should do everything according to the protocols. It takes a long, long time. It takes a lot of money.”
Other critics have taken aim at Russia data that underpinned the Lancet article.
“There is a gross lack of transparency” in the Sputnik V trial, said Italian biologist Enrico Bucci, adjunct professor at Philadelphia’s Temple University.
In September, he and 14 other scientists co-wrote a letter to the Lancet criticizing earlier Sputnik V research published in the journal. The group also did not obtain data they requested from Russia, he said.
Yasny, of Inbio Ventures, also criticized the lack of transparency and said it was possible the efficacy of the vaccine was exaggerated, although he still believes it is a good vaccine.
He said Russia’s reflexive resistance to Western levels of transparency and medical science norms only undermines confidence. In Argentina, where Sputnik V is being rolled out, only 39 percent trust the Russian vaccine, according to polling firm Poliarquía.
“In my opinion, they should publish as much information as they can,” Yasny said. “But this is not in their DNA. They prefer to conceal things.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/russia-vaccine-sputnik-coronavirus-lancet/2021/02/08/18d8d55c-6571-11eb-bab8-707f8769d785_story.html


#42
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 09.02.2021
Заглавие: An E.U. diplomat went to Moscow to build bridges. It didn’t go well.


By Michael Birnbaum
February 9, 2021 at 2:42 p.m. EST
A top European Union official traveled to Moscow last week bearing an olive branch. But his experience proved so humiliating that it may have sown the seeds of U.S.-E.U. cooperation on a tougher Russia policy.
On Tuesday, E.U. foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said he would propose new sanctions against the Kremlin.
He had wanted to “test if the Russian authorities are interested in a serious attempt to reverse the deterioration of our relations and seize the opportunity to have a more constructive dialogue,” Borrell told skeptical lawmakers at the European Parliament. “The answer has been clear. No. They are not.”
Borrell’s growing roster of critics say that was obvious even before he touched down in Moscow on Thursday, days after the country’s main opposition leader, Alexei Navalny, was sentenced to more than 2½ years in a penal colony because he failed to report to a probation officer after being attacked in Siberia with a deadly nerve agent. Some E.U. foreign ministers, especially those of former communist countries in Eastern Europe, warned Borrell against going.
Russian opposition leader Navalny ordered jailed, calls on supporters to keep pressure on Putin
But the Spanish diplomat and E.U. high representative for foreign affairs said he wanted to test the efficacy of face-to-face contacts, joining a line of Western politicians who have attempted their own reboot of Russian relations, only to be disappointed.
Although his trip did not improve Europe’s ties with Russia, it may have aligned Brussels better with Washington at a time when President Biden is taking a new, harder line against the Kremlin after four years in which President Donald Trump often appeared hesitant to criticize Russian President Vladimir Putin.
French President Emmanuel Macron has also pushed for more dialogue with Putin, worrying European Russia skeptics, who say that any normalization would only embolden a leader they say has assassinated his enemies, invaded neighboring nations and endangered the world during his 21 years in office.
Borrell’s reversal followed a bravura performance by his counterpart, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, who has delighted in skewering opponents during his 17 years in office — sometimes without their realizing what is happening.
Lavrov appeared solicitous toward Borrell on Friday at the outset of a joint news conference, pausing to make sure the Spaniard was able to use his translation headset. Then he blasted the European Union as an “unreliable partner” and questioned its human rights record — while Borrell stood awkwardly to the side, a half-smile occasionally playing across his face.
Borrell addressed a session of the European Parliament in Brussels on Friday after his widely criticized visit to Moscow. (Olivier Hoslet/Pool/Reuters)
When Borrell did get a chance to speak, he was baited by questions from pro-Kremlin media outlets into criticizing U.S. policy toward Cuba. He also said that Europe should authorize the Russian-made Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine. A paper published last week in the Lancet showed 92 percent efficacy for the Russian-developed shot — but Russian leaders have also been eager to use it to gain political leverage.
How Russian biotech trampled protocols — and challenged the West — in race for Sputnik V vaccine
“A trip to Russia, given the background, given the tensions, sends a message,” said Dacian Ciolos, a Romanian member of the European Parliament, addressing Borrell. “You fell into a media trap in Moscow, one created by the Putin regime.”
The trip, which was capped by Russia’s expulsion of three E.U. diplomats over their alleged participation in protests about Navalny, was so disastrous it appears to have prompted Borrell to rethink his stance on sanctioning Russia for the activist’s poisoning and imprisonment. Asked at Friday’s news conference about the prospect of punitive E.U. measures, he said no. On Tuesday, there was a shift: He said he would propose measures that “could include sanctions.”
“Containment efforts should include combining robust action against disinformation, cyberattacks and other possible hybrid challenges,” he said.
But if Borrell feels newly skeptical about relations with Russia, he still repeatedly stumbled Tuesday over the pronunciation of Navalny’s name, referring to him as “Nalvany.”
Lavrov kept up his defiance this week, asking reporters Monday: “Who is drifting away from whom? After all, could it be that the E.U. itself is moving farther away from Russia, the Russian language and culture?”
In triggering a potentially tougher European response, Lavrov’s prickly strategy may have had an unintended effect. But some European diplomats said that good relations with Europe as a whole may not be the Kremlin’s goal.
“Most probably, Russia is not looking for any meaningful relations” with the bloc, focusing on cultivating individual European countries and exacerbating divisions, said Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics, who was among those who warned Borrell about the visit. “It will backfire, but then it is their choice.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/an-eu-diplomat-went-to-moscow-to-build-bridges-it-didnt-go-well/2021/02/09/68cfefb0-6ae8-11eb-a66e-e27046e9e898_story.html


#43
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 10.02.2021
Заглавие: Maduro touts miracle cure to mask massive problem: Venezuela can’t (or won’t) get vaccines


By Ana Vanessa Herrero
and 
Anthony Faiola
February 10, 2021 at 5:13 p.m. EST
CARACAS, Venezuela — The president announced the "medical breakthrough" with a pitch that could school a QVC presenter.
Neutralize the coronavirus without a single side effect! No needle? No problem! Just a few drops of the magic liquid under the tongue every four hours and it’s goodbye, lockdown; hello, good health.
“From Venezuela to the world,” Nicolás Maduro declared in a national address, unveiling two shimmering vials of Carvativir.
Venezuelan medical professionals now say that Maduro’s “miracle drops” — which he pledged would rapidly go into mass production — are actually an extract of the herb thyme, used in homeopathic therapies and ordinary cooking.
Yet one aspect of the marketing blitz did ring true. More than any other nation in the Western Hemisphere, this broken socialist state might need a miracle to defeat the novel coronavirus.
Mexico’s pandemic policy: No police. No curfews. No fines. No regrets.
Venezuela is so far behind in sourcing vaccine that analysts say it could be 2023 or later before it acquires enough to achieve herd immunity. That places it in the bottom rung of nations — alongside authoritarian peers North Korea, Syria and Myanmar — where widespread vaccination campaigns are not expected until long after the rest of the globe has regained a semblance of normal life.
For a country that was locked in a humanitarian crisis long before the pandemic and where two men — Maduro and the U.S.-backed opposition leader, Juan Guaidó — claim to be president, the problems are both economic and political. More than two decades of mismanagement and corruption have emptied state coffers, broken the health-care system and sent the once lucrative oil sector into a death spiral. Meanwhile, billions of dollars in state assets remain frozen by nations, including the United States, that oppose Maduro’s socialist government.
Maduro claims that the opposition’s resistance to unfreezing those assets — and U.S. sanctions that hinder financing and purchasing — have left his government without the resources it needs to compete in the global scrum for coronavirus vaccine.
Critics counter that the autocratic Maduro is purposely dragging his feet on vaccine acquisitions, seeking to portray the nation as a victim in the hope of winning sanctions relief from the new Biden administration.
As the sides lock horns, the Venezuelan people may be running out of time. Maduro’s government missed a critical deadline last month to buy into a World Health Organization-linked program designed to help developing nations obtain supplies of coronavirus vaccine. Paolo Balladelli, the WHO’s Venezuela chief, tweeted last week that the government still could get up to 2.4 million doses — a decent start for a country of 28.5 million — if it bought into the program by Tuesday. It did not. On Wednesday, officials with the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), the Latin American arm of the WHO, said they could be “flexible” with the payment timetable.
But talks between Maduro and the opposition to reach a grand accord have bogged down. Neither side is projecting optimism.
“We are in frenzied discussions with anyone we can reach to move this forward because of what the consequences will be for the Venezuelan population,” said Ciro Ugarte, director of health emergencies at the PAHO. “What we want is for the Venezuelan population to get vaccines, and as we see now, that is not possible yet.”
The Amazonian city where Brazil variant was found has been crushed by it
In a search for answers, Maduro’s government is venturing into magical realism, peddling homegrown remedies including herbal teas and miracle drops in an attempt to calm a long-suffering populace. When presenting Carvativir to the nation last month, Maduro claimed he could not reveal the identity of the drug’s inventor, even as he brandished a book that named the scientist on national television.
That book, easily found online, identified Raúl Ojeda as the head researcher behind a compound that contains the active ingredient isothymol. The back cover describes Ojeda as a “writer, poet, altruist and biochemical researcher,” and identifies him as an employee of Labfarven, a laboratory that produces the drops and, according to corporate records, used to sell auto parts.
Venezuelan doctors were initially cautious in their assessments of a compound that they say has been used in mouthwashes and antiseptics to kill bacteria. After exploring Ojeda’s findings, they are now calling Maduro’s claims not only false but dangerous. Maduro has dismissed the criticism, saying that “envy” has “unleashed a brutal campaign against Carvativir.”
Ojeda did not respond to an interview request.
Enrique López Loyo, head of the Venezuelan Academy of Medicine, called the drops “a smokescreen around the imperative need for vaccines.”
“People could think, ‘Well, I'm taking my miracle drops, so I'm protected,’ and then have the audacity to not take any other precautions,” he said.
Perhaps sensing that Carvativir may not be enough, Maduro’s government is also turning to the long-demonized private sector for a financial remedy. Officials are exploring whether private companies may be able to help the government navigate around the barriers to financing and funds transfers that have been erected by U.S. sanctions.
Without another solution, Venezuela will be left with few options for ending the pandemic.
Coronavirus-ravaged Brazil places hopes on Chinese vaccine that works only half the time
The government has signed a contract for 10 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine. Maduro said Tuesday that the first 100,000 doses would arrive soon. Some Chinese vaccine, the government has noted vaguely, could be forthcoming, but how many doses remained unclear.
Venezuela’s last, best hope might be the eventual success of one or more of the vaccines being developed by communist Cuba. But analysts say such help remains untold months away.
The Cuban remedy “is a vaccine made for us, to the rhythm of the guaguancó, under the heat of the Caribbean,” Maduro assured his compatriots, referring to a subgenre of Cuban rumba.
Because of good fortune, a lack of testing or bad reporting, Venezuela’s coronavirus statistics have thus far proved better than its neighbors’. The country has registered 127,000 cases of infection and fewer than 1,200 deaths — far below the 2.9 million infections and nearly 54,000 deaths reported by neighboring Colombia. Yet, as shown by the spike in cases in Cuba, which had largely managed to control the virus until recent weeks, Venezuela remains at high risk of calamity.
Maduro’s government claims that U.S. sanctions and resistance from the domestic opposition have made it impossible to fulfill almost any financial commitment to buy vaccine. U.S. sanctions contain exceptions for medicines and food. But Jorge Arreaza, Maduro’s foreign minister, told The Washington Post that businesses and banks are too fearful of running afoul of Washington to do business with Venezuela.
“We have not been able to pay [for vaccine] by any means,” Arreaza said. “We are banned from using the financial system. No bank will receive Venezuelan money, for fear of sanctions.”
In December, attorneys representing Venezuela’s central bank sought to free funds frozen in Britain to cover an $18.1 million initial payment and a $101.8 million promissory note required to secure vaccine through Covax, the WHO-linked program for low- and middle-income countries to obtain vaccine supplies. Maduro’s government requested the support of Guaidó’s opposition for its petition, arguing that Venezuelan lives were at stake and asking that the funds be transferred directly to Covax.
More Americans are traveling to Mexico’s Riviera Maya than ever before. The parties have led to more coronavirus cases.
The opposition refused, saying Maduro clearly has other means to pay. The battered oil industry still can generate hundreds of millions of dollars a month, and officials have spoken of buying weapons from Iran.
There also is the issue of trust.
The opposition and U.S. officials cite a deal Guaidó’s team cut with Maduro to unfreeze 2.5 million euros in Spain to pay for shipments of 340,000 coronavirus test kits and processing machines through the PAHO in October.
The opposition and the PAHO say the test kits did not arrive at the hospitals the sides had agreed to and instead were diverted to government labs. Only about 2 percent of those tests have been used, they say.
“We have no idea where the rest are,” said infectious-disease physician Julio Castro, the main adviser to the opposition in the fight against the coronavirus.
Arreaza denied those assertions, saying that only a few antigen testing machines were shipped to different locations, under the direction of regional health officials.
“Everything from last year’s agreement was fulfilled,” he said.
The PAHO’s Ugarte said a separate deal with the opposition and Maduro’s government to bring $10 million worth of personal protective equipment and medicines into Venezuela to address the pandemic had been more successful, with “about 80 percent” of the aid reaching its intended destination.
Maduro has long been accused of politicizing foreign assistance. A shipment of humanitarian aid from the World Food Program, for example, has been delayed for months by his government’s insistence on controlling the distribution. Authorities have cracked down on private charities sidestepping the government to help the poor or sick directly.
Access to funds, Guaidó told reporters in Caracas last week, is not the problem. “That’s the dictatorship’s propaganda to try to excuse itself and point fingers and confuse the whole world,” he said.
Should a coronavirus vaccine be mandatory? In Brazil’s most populous state, it will be.
The Biden administration, which has signaled that it has no immediate plans for direct talks with Maduro, has nevertheless suggested it might be more flexible than the Trump administration was in addressing the country’s humanitarian crisis.
U.S. officials say Maduro’s government cannot be trusted to distribute coronavirus vaccine. But they say they are prepared to consider issuing special licenses that would grant vaccine makers explicit exemptions from U.S. sanctions.
Ugarte suggested that if Maduro and the opposition could reach a deal, missed payment deadlines could be forgiven.
“This is a very polarized situation, and both sides need to come to an agreement,” he said. “If they manage to pay for the vaccines, I don’t see how Covax could deny their request.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/the_americas/coronavirus-venezuela-vaccine-maduro/2021/02/08/99ee1200-663a-11eb-8468-21bc48f07fe5_story.html


#44
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 10.02.2021
Заглавие: Did we underestimate Russia’s vaccine?


By Ishaan Tharoor
Columnist
February 10, 2021 at 12:00 a.m. EST


Not long ago, talk of the Russian-made coronavirus vaccine provoked mockery. “There’s no way in hell the U.S. tries this on monkeys, let alone people,” a Trump administration official told CNN in August, referring to initial reports about Russia’s development of the Sputnik V drug — which bypassed traditional steps in testing before its release. Even at home, where a history of political opacity and bureaucratic incompetence has left a lingering distrust of authority, many ordinary Russians shied away from getting the jab once it was made available to the public in December.
But now, Sputnik V — named after the world’s first satellite that saw the Soviets initially outpace the Americans in the space race — is starting to look like it could be a global success story. It got a boost last week after the respected British medical journal the Lancet published a peer-reviewed paper that found the vaccine had 91.6 percent efficacy 21 days after the first shot and 91.8 percent for those over 60 years old, placing it on par with the celebrated Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines.
More than a dozen countries have approved the vaccine for use, with more likely to follow now that it has received the Lancet’s seal of approval. Sputnik V is considerably cheaper than its Western competitors and does not require the same sort of ultracold storage infrastructure that would complicate distribution of the Pfizer vaccine in much of the developing world.
“This is a watershed moment for us,” Kirill Dmitriev, chief executive of the state-run Russian Direct Investment Fund, which is behind both Sputnik V’s development and its international rollout, told Bloomberg News.
And it could amount to a rare soft-power victory for the Kremlin. “It does say something about the quality and integrity of the scientific enterprise within Russia, which a lot of people disparage or dismiss as decayed and obsolete and underfinanced and underpowered, and that so many of their scientists had fled to greener pastures in Europe and North America,” Stephen Morrison, director of the Global Health Policy Center at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, told my colleague Robyn Dixon. “This would seem to fly in the face of that.”
Experts speaking to Dixon cautioned that this achievement may be something of an “outlier” and does not herald a Russian scientific renaissance. But it does come on the heels of a major national research strategy implemented by President Vladimir Putin in recent years, including investments in universities and research labs.
On multiple continents, governments have turned to administering Sputnik V. This week, Iran began inoculating its health-care workers with the Russian vaccine ahead of a broader push toward immunization in a country weakened by economic sanctions and home to the pandemic’s worst outbreak in the Middle East. Russia and Iran also agreed a deal for the Iranians to start manufacturing the vaccine by April. Plans are already in motion for Sputnik V to be mass produced in India, Turkey, Brazil and South Korea, while Russia has promised free vaccinations to its entire population.
Six countries in Latin America, beginning with Argentina, have begun distributing it to their citizens. “The Russian Sputnik V vaccine is safe, it has 92 percent efficacy against COVID, it can be used safely and is effective in seniors,” Hugo López-Gatell, the Mexican government’s chief pandemic spokesperson, told reporters last week. “It allows us now to accelerate the step of vaccination against COVID in Mexico.” Last month, Mexico announced the purchase of 24 million Sputnik doses.


People wait to receive doses of the Sputnik V vaccine at the River Plate stadium in Buenos Aires on Feb. 3. (Matias Baglietto/Reuters)
Perhaps the biggest prize — at least, in geopolitical terms — is Europe. Dogged by production shortages and failures in procurement, E.U. countries have lagged in their vaccination efforts compared with the United States and Britain. This week, Hungary announced its approval of Sputnik V and received 40,000 doses of the vaccine. “The vaccine cannot be a political question,” Prime Minister Viktor Orban told state radio last month. “One can only choose between western and eastern vaccines when you have enough.”
It’s piquing interest further west, too. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said last week that she would welcome the Russian vaccine within the bloc as long as it passed the approval of E.U. regulators.
That openness stands in stark contrast to tensions between the two powers on other fronts. In Brussels, attention focused on what’s been viewed as a shambolic trip to Moscow by Josep Borrell, the E.U.’s foreign policy chief, who went to the Russian capital in the aftermath of the controversial jailing of prominent opposition leader Alexei Navalny. The veteran diplomat bore an olive branch but returned humiliated.
“The trip, which was capped by Russia’s expulsion of three E.U. diplomats over their alleged participation in protests about Navalny, was so disastrous it appears to have prompted Borrell to rethink his stance on sanctioning Russia for the activist’s poisoning and imprisonment,” wrote my colleague Michael Birnbaum. “Asked at Friday’s news conference about the prospect of punitive E.U. measures, he said no. On Tuesday, there was a shift: He said he would propose measures that ‘could include sanctions.’ ”
Kremlin critics want President Biden and his allies in Europe to take a firm line against the Russian regime. At the very least, they should “stop giving Putin and other authoritarian regimes leverage and legitimacy with trade deals, memberships and access,” exiled dissident Garry Kasparov wrote in a Washington Post opinion piece. “Lecturing dictators about human rights is meaningless if you’re also taking their oil, gas and cash.” But what about their vaccines?
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/02/10/russia-sputnik-vaccine-underestimated/


#45
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 11.02.2021
Заглавие: Among Latino immigrants, false vaccine claims are spreading as fast as the virus


By Teo Armus
February 11, 2021 at 4:00 p.m. EST
Since November, Blanca Espronceda has spent many mornings chatting up other Latinos about the coronavirus vaccine, recruiting her neighbors in Maryland’s heavily immigrant suburbs to participate in ongoing trials.
But even as a community health worker, she has her own fears about getting the shot.
“What if the side effects make me sicker than the virus?” asked Espronceda, a 36-year-old native of Mexico who lives in Hyattsville. “What if I should wait a year, just to make sure it works?”
For those she approaches with fliers at food distribution sites and supermarkets, the objections are stronger: Some falsely insist that the vaccine contains a microchip or that it will give them cancer. Others fear their personal information will be used to spy on them. Many point to religious beliefs, claiming that God will cure them if they contract covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, or that the vaccine is a sign of the Antichrist.
“As Hispanics, we like to gossip, pass on messages from one person to the next,” said Espronceda, who works with a program called Salud y Bienestar, or Health and Wellness.” “But if we listen to all the negative things people say, we will have a problem on our hands.”
Latinos face higher chances of being infected by the coronavirus, getting hospitalized and dying of covid-19 but are twice as likely to lack the health insurance to afford treatment. They have suffered the sharpest drop in employment since March, and many who have held onto jobs are essential workers who risk exposure every day.
Yet they also appear to be getting vaccinated at very low rates.
15,000 dead: How coronavirus spread through D.C., Maryland and Virginia
More than 753,000 Maryland residents had received at least one coronavirus shot as of Thursday, according to state data. Among the 587,000 residents for whom ethnicity was reported, less than 4 percent identified as Latino or Hispanic. Nine percent of the state’s population is Hispanic.
Latino immigrants are far from a monolithic category, and many, including those in the Maryland suburbs, are eager to get vaccinated. Yet faced with language and literacy barriers, immigration fears or a lack of outreach from local and state governments, some of the most vulnerable communities have become fertile ground for vaccine misinformation, advocates say.
“People are being manipulated,” said Norma Martinez, who coordinates Salud y Bienestar’s efforts across Montgomery and Prince George’s counties. “It’s making them nervous and mistrustful of the vaccine. But it’s a matter of education. Little by little, we will ensure that people get on board.”
Groups such as hers must fight falsehoods that spread far and wide on social media, powered by a deep trust in religious leaders, skepticism in government and, in some cases, a mere lack of other information.
An 'infodemic'
Floridalma Galvez, 34, said the calls and WhatsApp messages began weeks before any vaccine was approved, from cousins in Chicago, Florida and her native Guatemala: The vaccine was “the mark of the beast,” they told her, a reference to Satan or the Antichrist in the Book of Revelation.
Her family members heard it from evangelical pastors at church, she said, and passed it on to Galvez and other social media contacts, spamming their family chats with images and videos that baselessly claimed a coronavirus vaccine would alter their DNA.
 “These conspiracy theories are like the virus itself,” said Oscar Soria, a campaign director at the human rights group Avaaz, which has studied the matter and pushed social media companies for stronger regulation. “They mutate and develop new strains, which makes it very difficult to detect them. If something starts in English and continues in Spanish, it’s going to keep spreading.”
Soria said the most common falsehoods circulating among Spanish-language networks — such as the claim that chlorine dioxide will cure covid-19, which has been disavowed by the Food and Drug Administration — may have spread from the United States or Europe to Latin America.
One of the most prolific sources of vaccine disinformation, Doctores por la Verdad, or Doctors for Truth, appears to have started in Spain and moved to Argentina and a dozen other countries, peddling myths that eventually reached the United States.
Vaccine opponents outline online campaigns to sow distrust in coronavirus vaccine
Yet just like during last year’s presidential election, social media companies have been far less likely to flag misleading posts or videos in Spanish, Soria said, prompting what he called an “infodemic.”
In an analysis of viral misinformation on Facebook last year, Avaaz found that 20 percent of Spanish-language posts received warning labels, compared with 70 percent in English.
Once falsehoods move to encrypted messaging apps such as Telegram and WhatsApp, it becomes significantly harder to monitor and put a stop them.
In his own family’s WhatsApp groups, Soria said, his father has posted images baselessly claiming that the Sputnik vaccine being distributed in Argentina is a coordinated effort — by the country’s left-wing government, Russian President Vladimir Putin, the Rockefeller family and Pope Francis — to control the Argentine population.
Flavia Colangelo, a researcher at the firm GQR, which advises political campaigns on misinformation, noted that Spanish-language myths circulating among Latino immigrants are not necessarily dissimilar from those that spread in English.
“But you have the added complexity because it’s in Spanish,” Colangelo said. “You have Spanish actors, Spanish influencers, and when we don’t have a lot of counterinformation in Spanish, they become a lot more dangerous.”
Pushing back with science
Some state and local governments have rolled out plans to target vulnerable sectors of their immigrant population with accurate resources. Oregon and Washington state, for instance, are planning radio ads to reach migrant farmworkers and a digital ad campaign entirely in Spanish.
Others are trying to address concerns that undocumented residents might be reluctant to seek out the vaccine because of their legal status or because of a set of Trump administration rules that make it harder to obtain permanent residency after relying on safety-net programs.
Earlier this month, President Biden’s Department of Homeland Security announced that federal immigration agents would not be conducting arrests at vaccination clinics. New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (D) has pushed to ensure that personal data collected during vaccinations is not shared with the federal government, and Connecticut Gov. Ned Lamont (D) has encouraged undocumented residents to get vaccinated.
Yet some efforts have resulted in misinformation issues of their own. In Maryland, the state’s Spanish-language vaccine registration page initially used the word for “car race” in the section that asked people for their race, sex and ethnicity, Montgomery County Council member Nancy Navarro (D-District 4) told state lawmakers Tuesday. Because of a Google Translate error, the Virginia Department of Health’s online Spanish-language FAQ at one point falsely stated that vaccines were not necessary — when officials only meant to say that no one would be forced to get a shot, an agency representative said.
Advocates such as Salud y Bienestar’s Martinez say the bulk of the work falls on trusted community members, like her small army of more than 70 volunteers.
In areas such as Langley Park — where 70 percent of adults are not U.S. citizens, and more infections have been reported than in any other Zip code in Maryland — these community health workers are trained to hand out face masks and offer resources on everything from free testing to rent assistance.
“People are so desperately in need of answers,” Martinez said, “and we know the community, because we’re a part of the community.”
Since the summer, Salud y Bienestar volunteers have taken on a second mission: recruiting volunteers for Moderna and Novavax trials at the University of Maryland School of Medicine.
Few states are accurately tracking coronavirus vaccinations by race. Some aren’t at all.
Milagritos Tapia, a Maryland pediatrics professor who helps coordinate the trials, said the arrangement allows researchers to confirm the vaccine is effective for an especially hard-hit community, while sowing seeds of trust though the participants. Because many of the community health workers participated in Moderna’s Phase 3 trials in the fall, they can point to their own experiences to show there is nothing to be afraid of.
Such was the case one recent Saturday outside a Korean Korner supermarket in Silver Spring, where Dolores Fontalvo, a volunteer with Salud y Bienestar, approached George Ura, 17, to see whether he might be interested in participating in ongoing vaccine trials.
“Isn’t this stuff made by big corporations? They might be lying about what’s in there,” Ura answered, saying his parents had told him the vaccine could cause cancer.
But Fontalvo, 74, gently shot back with rapid-fire questions: Did Ura ever study how other epidemics were put to an end? Does he know anyone who died of covid-19? Has he looked at the staggering death toll? And hadn’t he received other vaccines as a child?
Accepting a flier from her, the teenager was left with little to say in response.


#46
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 17.02.2021
Заглавие: First coronavirus vaccines arrive in Gaza Strip following blockage by Israel


By Steve Hendrix
and  Shira Rubin
February 17, 2021 at 3:02 p.m. EST
JERUSALEM — The first coronavirus vaccines reached the Gaza Strip on Wednesday when 2,000 doses of the Russian Sputnik serum crossed into the heavily guarded enclave of almost 2 million Palestinians.
The shipment arrived after Palestinian officials accused Israel of blocking it for political purposes when an initial attempt at delivery was turned back Monday at a military checkpoint.
Israel maintains tight control over goods and people entering Gaza, and some right-wing Israeli politicians and activists want to condition the delivery of vaccines on the release of hostages and human remains held by Hamas, the militant Palestinian group that governs the enclave.
“We warn [Israel] against the consequences of the spread of coronavirus in Gaza,” said Ismail Radwan, a former Hamas minister. “The resistance will not be blackmailed, and we will not pay a price for letting the vaccine into the Gaza Strip.”
Israel is starting to vaccinate, but Palestinians may have to wait months
Israeli officials would not comment on the reasons for the two-day delay in granting permission for the vaccine to enter Gaza, saying only that the request had been under review by the country’s National Security Council and the military agency that controls access to Gaza.
Health officials in Gaza City said they would begin inoculating residents immediately, starting with patients who are most vulnerable to dying of covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, including transplant patients and those on dialysis.
Gaza, where clean water and reliable electricity are in critically short supply and crowded refugee camps make it one of the most densely populated territories in the world, has battled to keep the virus from overwhelming its meager health system. Gaza has registered almost 54,000 positive coronavirus cases and 538 deaths.
Wednesday’s shipment represents a portion of the 10,000 doses of Sputnik delivered to the West Bank on Feb. 3. The Palestinian Authority tried Monday to dispatch part of that supply to Gaza, according to a health official familiar with the plan, packing the vials in an insulated box. Unlike the Pfizer vaccine being distributed across Israel, which requires ultracold storage, the Russian version requires only basic refrigeration.
But the vehicle was stopped at the Beitunia Checkpoint in the West Bank.
“When they arrived at the checkpoint [on Monday], there was no approval to deliver the vaccine,” said an Israeli security official who was not authorized to be quoted by name. “They were told to come back. The difference today was that we had an approval in place, and the vaccine was allowed to pass through.”
Vaccine supplies have marked another flash point in the decades-long conflict between Israel and the Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza. Human rights groups and Palestinian activists have argued that Israel has both a legal and moral obligation to provide vaccine to the 5 million Palestinians living in territories it effectively controls.
Israelis have countered that the 30-year Oslo accords, which give the West Bank and Gaza a measure of self-government, make the Palestinian Authority and Hamas responsible for their own health systems.
The disparity has grown stark as Israel has rolled out the world’s fastest vaccination program, inoculating more than 4 million people, about 40 percent of its residents, since December. Many of those vaccinated live in Jewish settlements in the West Bank, where they share roads, workplaces and grocery stores with Palestinians who so far have had almost no access to the shots.
Some Israeli officials, including Health Minister Yuli Edelstein, have said they recognize Israel’s self-interest in keep the virus at bay amid their Palestinian neighbors, thousands of whom cross the checkpoints for work every day. But they say they can share no vaccine until more of their own citizens are injected.
Both the Palestinian Authority and Hamas are participating in Covax, the international vaccine-sharing program that aims to cover about 20 percent of their needs starting with deliveries expected later this month. Both are also negotiating to acquire other doses from Russia, China and other sources.
Palestinians denounced the initial delay in delivering the vaccines as “racist” and called on the international community to pressure Israel to free the shipment. They seized on calls within Israel to use the serum as leverage in a long-standing dispute with Hamas, which is currently believed to be holding two Israeli citizens, Avera Mengistu and Hisham al-Sayed, in addition to the remains of two Israeli soldiers, Hadar Goldin and Oron Shaul, who were killed during the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.
Hamas officials have said they would like to bargain the release of the four men in a future prisoner swap with Israel.
The family of Goldin, which has petitioned Israel’s Supreme Court to block the vaccine delivery, characterized the transfer as “a knife in the heart of IDF fighters,” according to media reports Wednesday.
Israel’s parliament, the Knesset, pressed officials in charge of Gaza access to take the hostage issue into account at an acrimonious committee meeting Monday. Some members said Hamas, at the very least, should be forced to provide information about the hostages in exchange for greenlighting the vaccine delivery.
“We know that 500 vaccines that are brought to Gaza will first go to Hamas leaders and not to any medical staff member. Let us not be played for fools,” said Zvi Hauser, a lawmaker with the right-wing Derech Eretz party.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/middle_east/israel-gaza-vaccine-blocked/2021/02/17/5a29112a-70f7-11eb-8651-6d3091eac63f_story.html


#47
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 17.02.2021
Заглавие: Access to the coronavirus vaccine is inequitable


February 17, 2021 at 5:04 p.m. EST
As the Feb. 14 news article “Moderna has yet to deliver on promised ‘equitable access’ ” pointed out, other countries are ahead of the United States in vaccine diplomacy. China has signed bilateral agreements with more than 15 countries, including Brazil and Turkey. The Russian Direct Investment Fund — responsible for promoting the Sputnik V vaccine around the world — boasts it has expressions of interest from more than 50 countries. Though these efforts to bolster their soft power have appeal in many parts of the world, widespread use of partially efficacious vaccines can lead to even greater virus resistance and deadlier strains in the future.
President Biden has implemented important steps to accelerate vaccine coverage in the United States, and the administration is playing catch-up outside its borders. Recognizing the importance of global leadership to curb the spread of the coronavirus, the Biden administration released an order to strengthen the international response and to advance global health security and biological preparedness. These are welcome steps for a world that needs equitable distribution of all safe and effective vaccines.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/letters-to-the-editor/access-to-the-coronavirus-vaccine-is-inequitable/2021/02/17/fe1df4ca-70a3-11eb-8651-6d3091eac63f_story.html


#48
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 17.02.2021
Заглавие: Vaccine shortage prompts U.S. diplomats to request doses from foreign governments, including Russia


By John Hudson
February 17, 2021 at 12:57 p.m. EST
U.S. diplomats serving in countries with poor medical infrastructure and high coronavirus infection rates are venting frustrations about the way top officials in Washington are distributing the vaccines for the virus, according to meeting notes, interviews and documents obtained by The Washington Post.
The limited supply of doses of the vaccines has forced State Department leaders to make difficult and unenviable decisions, and created humbling experiences for U.S. diplomats representing the world’s wealthiest country.
Managing the shortage is an early challenge for Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who has pledged to restore “morale and trust” at the department.
At least 13 foreign governments offered to inoculate U.S. officials serving abroad with their own supplies of U.S.-made Moderna and Pfizer vaccines — a gesture the State Department has already accepted, said senior U.S. officials. The department is evaluating offers from at least eight other countries that are willing to do the same.
In Russia, some State Department personnel appealed to Moscow for doses of its Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine after Washington could not promise the delivery of U.S.-made vaccine doses in the near future, officials said.
The Sputnik vaccine has not been approved by the World Health Organization or the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The State Department is not recommending its employees take it but is permitting them to make their own health decisions as the pandemic claims more than 2.4 million lives worldwide.
“It’s embarrassing for the world’s richest country to require the charity of other nations when it comes to vaccines,” said one U.S. diplomat posted to the Middle East, “especially when you consider that the best vaccines were made in the U.S.”
That’s not the only indignity.
In China, some U.S. personnel have complained about being subjected to anal swab tests for the coronavirus by Chinese authorities, said U.S. officials. The invasive technique has been heralded by Chinese doctors as more effective than a nasal swab despite the unpleasant nature of the procedure. In response to questions about the anal swab testing of U.S. officials, a State Department spokesman said the department was “evaluating all reasonable options” to address the issue with the aim of preserving the “dignity” of U.S. officials “consistent with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.”
The State Department, like other U.S. agencies, is at the mercy of the Department of Health and Human Services for how much vaccine it receives. The State Department requested 315,000 doses but has received only 23 percent of that in three separate tranches, said officials, who like others spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal operations.
The State Department’s acting undersecretary for management, Carol Perez, acknowledged in a memo to employees this month that “there has been some confusion surrounding the Department’s distribution of COVID-19 vaccines as we work to quickly provide the vaccines to our workforce.”
Perez and other senior officials told The Post that they were working to address concerns of diplomats in the field about the vaccines.
“The health and safety of our people is a top priority for the department, and we are committed to providing our workforce timely, accurate information about vaccine distribution,” Perez said. “This is a very fluid situation, and we understand employees are eager for information.”
In his first address to staff in January, Blinken noted that the pandemic had claimed the lives of five American State Department employees and 42 locally employed staff around the world. “Many more have gotten sick,” he said. “The president is committed to getting us through it as quickly as possible.”
Some diplomats expressed sympathy for State Department leaders during an unprecedented crisis.
“The Department has done a decent job of administering vaccines under very difficult circumstances,” said a representative of the American Foreign Service Association (AFSA), the union that represents U.S. diplomats. “That said, the department could do a better job at communicating.”
To address the communication concerns, Perez and the department’s chief medical officer, Larry G. Padget, held a conference call Feb. 2 in which 900 U.S. officials phoned in from around the world.
A lingering complaint among some U.S. diplomats is their belief that the vaccine distribution disproportionally favors U.S. personnel in Washington and New York at the expense of diplomats in Brazil, Oman, Russia, Bahrain and dozens of other at-risk countries. They claim that non-mission-critical officials in the United States have been able to obtain vaccine simply by coming into the office once a week, while diplomats abroad are left stranded with no assurances of inoculation in the near future.
“Washington is prioritizing domestic workers, with no real plan for the rest of us, when they all have access to U.S. health care,” said one senior U.S. diplomat. “And the reason they give — continuity of work — makes no sense. What about continuity of working in the field?”
State Department leaders say that in recent weeks they have implemented tougher vetting of which U.S.-based employees receive vaccine and deny that they have disproportionally benefited the Washington area.
While the first tranche of doses the department received in December did primarily go to U.S. officials on the East Coast — in particular front-line medical personnel, the department’s 24/7 watch centers and personnel in the New York passport office — the allotment also went to U.S. personnel in the capitals of Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia.
The second allotment went to a mix of workers in regional passport offices in New Orleans; Portsmouth, N.H.; and Hot Springs, Ark., as well as foreign-based workers in West Africa, Mexico and Turkmenistan, officials said.
They said the bulk of the third allotment will go overseas to posts in eastern and southern Africa. They acknowledged that this plan leaves out many countries hosting U.S. personnel but said they are doing their best with a limited supply.
U.S. diplomats stationed abroad say the feeling of being de-prioritized also stems from an order that Washington sent to overseas posts, including those with travel restrictions in place and rising cases, to send their most senior health unit staff to Washington to assist with vaccinating employees in the capital area.
“Our health units have been hollowed out to support vaccinations in D.C.,” said one diplomat posted abroad.
A State Department spokesman said that the reason that the department “authorized staff rotations” is to “learn at a very high and expert level how to do contact-tracing and patient management.”
The official said the department will maintain “sufficient staffing to support our operations abroad.”
The Biden administration has been more transparent about vaccine distribution than the Trump administration, diplomats noted, but there is still room for improvement. “State needs to send out updated information on a regular basis,” said the AFSA official.
Some U.S. diplomats look enviously at how the U.S. military is managing vaccine distribution, though the comparison is complicated by the Pentagon’s larger size and the logistical challenges of reaching smaller, far-flung embassies and consulates around the world.
The State Department, which has around 75,000 employees, has received roughly 73,000 doses but declined to say how many people it has vaccinated. Officials from other agencies, including Treasury and USAID, also receive the shots supplied to U.S. embassies.
The Pentagon has administered more than 800,000 first doses of vaccine, with 210,000 of those service members receiving second doses, the department said last week. There are about 1.4 million troops on active duty and about 2.9 million people employed by the department.
Lawrence Gostin, a professor of global health law at Georgetown University, said vaccine supply issues and a lack of information about inventory have clouded public health officials’ ability to predict the pace of mass inoculations.
“The lack of data has plagued our vaccine rollout in every sector,” he said. “Making these vaccines is also time-consuming.”
But that doesn’t diminish the responsibility the department has to diplomats serving abroad, he said. “We’re asking them to go to dangerous places. We have an ethical obligation to vaccinate our people overseas,” he’s said. “And it’s hard not to bristle at the idea that we would farm out the protection of our diplomatic corps to a foreign government.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/state-department-coronavirus-vaccine-diplomats/2021/02/17/ec507e84-70d5-11eb-a4eb-44012a612cf9_story.html


#49
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 18.02.2021
Заглавие: Europe is failing on vaccines. Help from the U.S. could bring the two back together.


By Dalibor Rohac
February 18, 2021 at 3:12 p.m. EST
Dalibor Rohac is a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington.
The fact that the United Kingdom and Serbia, both outside the European Union, are leading Europe’s efforts to vaccinate its population against covid-19 tells you everything you need to know about the E.U.'s failures. As the United States ramps up its own production capacity and rolls out new, cheaper vaccines — notably by Johnson & Johnson — it should offer to help.
Opinions to start the day, in your inbox. Sign up.
The E.U.'s vaccine rollout has been nothing short of a disaster. The European Commission was late to secure binding deals with Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca last year. Instead, the Commission placed its initial bets on French manufacturer Sanofi, whose vaccine program did not pan out. Because of production delays, the supply of new doses has now been reduced to a trickle.
In contrast to the E.U.’s average of 5.25 doses per 100 people, Serbia has administered more than 13.5 by relying primarily on the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine and on China’s Sinopharm. Russia has even granted local laboratories the license to produce Sputnik V at home, potentially steering the Balkan country into an unlikely vaccine success story — one it will owe to Vladimir Putin.
For Europe’s eastern periphery, the alternative to the Serbian approach looks like Ukraine. There, the government has ruled out the use of the Russian vaccine and was only able to purchase 1.9 million doses of China’s Sinovac vaccine (for a population of about 40 million). Otherwise dependent on the World Health Organization-backed COVAX program for its vaccines, Ukraine is unlikely to reach widespread vaccination levels before 2023.
As a result, the allure of the Serbian model is so strong that it is now finding emulators within the E.U. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has ordered 2 million doses of Sputnik V and 5 million doses of Sinopharm for Hungary’s population of 9.7 million people.
On his visit to Moscow this month, E.U. foreign policy chief Josep Borrell praised the Russian vaccine and expressed the hope that it would be soon available in the bloc. Slovakia’s prime minister, meanwhile, is pushing hard for the purchase of the Russian vaccine. The Czech government has signaled its interest in following the Hungarian and Serbian example but decided to wait until Sputnik V is approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA).
In the coming months, the Biden administration will have an opportunity to ensure that Russian and Chinese vaccines are not the only game in town. In the United States, the distribution of vaccines has not been without problems, but it is proceeding at a much faster (and accelerating) pace than in the E.U. Anthony S. Fauci, the White House chief medical adviser, expects the supply of the vaccine to start outstripping demand by April, leading to an opening up of the vaccine’s availability to the general population. In the months to follow, the main hurdle will no longer be a lack of vaccines, but rather, the reluctance of some segments of the U.S. population to take them.
The Biden administration obviously needs to prioritize the needs of Americans. But the looming vaccine glut will enable the U.S. government to give a helping hand to Europe, where the numbers of available doses will likely remain minuscule throughout much of 2021.
Make no mistake. The embrace of Russian and Chinese vaccines is not Eastern Europeans’ first choice, but rather, a sign of desperation. Notwithstanding encouraging evidence about Sputnik V published recently in the top medical journal Lancet, neither the Russian nor the Chinese vaccine manufacturers have applied for EMA authorization, raising questions about the claims of the two vaccines’ effectiveness.
There is also a tension between the seemingly generous offers made by Russia and the extremely slow progress of vaccination within the country, where only between 1.5 and 2.7 doses have been administered per 100 people. The first delivery of Sputnik V in Hungary (out of the three shipments stipulated in the contract) contained only 2,800 doses, suggesting that the Russian government might be making promises way beyond its actual production capacity.
Even so, if the Serbian and the Hungarian bets pay off, Russia and China will have scored a massive win — at the expense of both Europe and the United States. To illiberal voices across the continent, such an outcome would only confirm their view of the E.U. and Western alliances as ossified and irrelevant to people’s most pressing needs.
We often forget that the Marshall Plan was in itself too small to make a meaningful macroeconomic difference. Its real value was in easing political pain in Europe at a sensitive moment. Similarly, even a modest vaccine aid package provided by the United States to the European governments most vulnerable to Chinese and Russian influence, both inside and outside the E.U., could be a political game-changer.
Lofty appeals to common values and nostalgia for the 1990s are not going to be enough to undo the damage done to the transatlantic partnership by the previous administration, nor are they going to bridge the substantive differences existing between the United States and Europe on many issues. A vaccine Marshall Plan extended to Europe in a time of need, in contrast, would provide a tangible reminder of why Europeans and Americans still need each other and set the stage for a more cooperative partnership going forward.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2021/02/18/europe-vaccines-america-marshall-plan/


#50
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 20.02.2021
Заглавие: Israel agrees to vaccinate Palestinian workers, Palestinian officials say


By Steve Hendrix
February 20, 2021 at 6:00 a.m. EST
JERUSALEM — Israel, which has faced criticism from human rights groups for not extending its world-leading vaccination program to Palestinian territories under its control, agreed Friday to inoculate 100,000 Palestinians who regularly cross into Israel to work, according to the Palestinian minister of health.
The vaccinations, which will occur at ad hoc centers set up along the line dividing Israel from the West Bank, she said, would mark the largest delivery of the protectant serum to the 5 million Palestinians living there and the Gaza Strip. Authorities there are largely depending on vaccine doses yet to be distributed by an internationally funded effort targeting poor countries, as well as independent purchases they are making on the open market.
To date, Palestinians have gotten access to about 10,000 doses of the Russian Sputnik vaccine donated by Moscow, 2,000 of which of arrived in Gaza this past week. Israel also sent 5,000 doses in early February to inject health workers.
Being able to reach 100,000 workers would mark a significant boost in the Palestinian program, according to Palestinian Health Minister Mai al-Kaila.
“We welcome this,” al-Kaila said Saturday. “We need to vaccinate our people, so we can end the pandemic everywhere.”
The agreement followed a rare meeting between Israeli and Palestinian officials Friday in Ramallah, the West Bank seat of the governing Palestinian Authority. Senior health officials from both sides, including Israel’s coronavirus “czar,” Nachman Ash, discussed efforts to control the outbreak that has killed more than 1,900 people in the territories.
Israel’s Ministry of Health has not officially announced the provision of vaccine doses, and officials did not respond to requests for comment Saturday, the Jewish sabbath. But the ministry had indicated earlier in the week its intention to offer doses to Palestinian workers, thousands of whom cross checkpoints every day to work in construction, service and other jobs in Israel.
Advertisement
In a statement, the ministry said Friday’s meeting occurred in the understanding “that Israel and the Palestinians live in one area and that an outbreak of COVID-19 among the Palestinian Authority may also affect the infection rate among Israeli residents.”
Israel has depended on the Pfizer vaccine, which requires ultracold storage, to inoculate more than 40 percent of its residents. But it also took shipment of a reported 120,000 doses of the Moderna vaccine in January. It was unclear what vaccines would go to the Palestinians and how quickly the shots could begin.
“We agreed on the principle, but we don’t know the details yet,” al-Kaila said.
The agreement would represent a reversal of Israel’s reluctance to offer vaccine in mass quantities to the Palestinians. The government has faced months of criticism for that stance, even as it has mounted a fast-paced campaign to inoculate its own population.
Some officials, including the Israeli health minister, said they would be willing to aid the Palestinians, but only after their own citizens had gotten vaccinated.
Human rights advocates argue that Israel has a moral and legal obligation to vaccinate a population under its effective control. Israel countered that the 30-year-old Oslo accords place responsibility for health care with the Palestinian’s own elected leaders, the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank and the militant Hamas group in Gaza.
The issue grew heated this past week when Palestinians accused Israel of political interference when it turned back a shipment of the Russian-donated vaccine meant for Gaza at a military checkpoint. That incident occurred amid calls from some right-wing Israeli politicians to condition the delivery on the release of hostages and human remains held by Hamas.
Israeli officials said the request to send the vaccine doses across the checkpoints required time for an official review. The doses were allowed to reach Gaza two days later.
“To me, health should be beyond politics,” al-Kaila said. “We and the Israelis, the Lebanese, the Syrians, the Egyptians, we are all in the same region. We should reach herd immunity together.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/israel-to-vaccinate-palestinian-workers/2021/02/20/5097c53a-7358-11eb-93be-c10813e358a2_story.html


#51
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 22.02.2021
Заглавие: The Russians and the Chinese are touting their vaccines. Should we trust them?


By Frida Ghitis
Contributing columnist
February 22, 2021 at 11:20 a.m. EST
When Russian President Vladimir Putin personally announced in August that Russia had approved the world’s first covid-19 vaccine, many reacted with skepticism and concern. Russian scientists hadn’t conducted Phase 3 trials, normally used before deploying a vaccine. Could the vaccine be trusted?
Opinions to start the day, in your inbox. Sign up.
The vaccine’s name, Sputnik V — harking back to a Soviet triumph against the West in the Cold War — suggested the Kremlin viewed the project not as a purely scientific public health endeavor, but as one with enormous geopolitical potential. Many remained suspicious. Even most Russians said they would not take the shot.
In November, U.S. pharmaceutical giant Pfizer announced that its vaccine was 90 percent effective. Two days later, Russia declared that its own vaccine had tested as 92 percent effective. Skeptics narrowed their eyes in disbelief.
This month, though, the prestigious scientific journal the Lancet published an article that seemed to confirm the Russian claims, concluding that Sputnik V appeared “safe and effective.” The study found its efficacy rate to be more than 90 percent, comparable to the best vaccines developed in the West.
The results of studies by Russian or Chinese scientists might turn out to be completely accurate — and we hope they are. Right now the world needs as many effective vaccines as we can get. But data emerging from tightly controlled authoritarian regimes deserves far more skepticism than we have seen so far.
The Lancet’s seal of approval has given a huge boost to the Russian vaccine effort, which is already selling millions of doses in dozens of countries around the world, a massive soft-power boost to Russia’s geopolitical clout.
The global vaccine race is not only about public health. The U.S. State Department accuses Russian state media of launching a coordinated disinformation campaign in Latin America to cast doubt on Western vaccines as dangerous and inferior to the Russian one. A disinformation researcher at a nonprofit organization described the campaign as “one of the largest operations we’ve seen.” Latin American countries, and others around the world, have rushed to buy Sputnik V, along with Chinese vaccines from Sinovac and Sinopharm.
Even Hungary, a member of the European Union, has already started inoculating its citizens with the Russian vaccine, and is considering using the Chinese ones as well. (The E.U.’s European Medicines Agency has not approved Sputnik V for use.)
Carlos del Rio, a leading researcher at Emory University who participated in development of the Moderna vaccine, told me that we should take Russian and Chinese results “with two grains of salt.” Del Rio, like other scientists, says he would like to see more data, adding that he’s sure the Lancet reviewed more material as part of the peer-review process. But the questions run deeper than data analysis.
Peer-review requires scientists to examine data provided by researchers and put it through rigorous paces. But how do we know the data provided are legitimate?
When it comes to the veracity of data, the system relies mostly on trust. But there’s a history of peer-reviewed journals that have been cheated before by people falsifying or manipulating data. Research of much less consequence than today’s vaccine trials turned out to be phony. In 2018, a Harvard-affiliated heart researcher was found to have fabricated or falsified data in 31 published studies. Scientists have long worried about the problem of faked or massaged data.
That doesn’t even take into account the immense pressure that can be brought to bear by authoritarian regimes aiming to expand their global influence.
Tellingly, Russians remain skeptical of the vaccine even as much of the rest of the world seems to welcome it.
It’s worth remembering that Putin has gone to extraordinary and sinister lengths to achieve his political aims in the past. Should we worry that several doctors working in Russia’s early response to the pandemic, who had criticized the system, have reportedly “jumped” out of windows to their deaths — a fate also experienced by journalists and other critics of the system?
We have also seen the Chinese Communist Party apply considerable effort to suppressing news about the pandemic and stonewall further investigation of the virus’s origins by international teams.
If ever there was a time to exercise skepticism about the research emerging from such regimes, rather than allowing the warmth of a scientific journal to evaporate all questions, it is now.
All vaccine developers have a lot at stake; all research should be scrutinized. But del Rio notes a major advantage of vaccines developed in open, democratic societies: the independence enjoyed by researchers and regulators. He notes that the Food and Drug Administration rejected pressure from President Trump to move faster on approving vaccines. “What you want is independence — independent investigators, independent companies, independent regulators,” says del Rio. “Checks and balances are good to have.”
Del Rio predicts that Russia will never subject its vaccine to the approval process from U.S. or E.U. regulators. As for the Chinese vaccines, he’s even more skeptical about those.
Skeptical or not, the world desperately needs billions of doses of vaccine to push back the virus. As the Russian and Chinese vaccines are rolled out, independent Phase 4 studies should double-check the reliability of earlier research, following up on those who have received doses and comparing their outcomes to those who have not or who have received other vaccines. As someone once urged during the Cold War: Trust, but also verify.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2021/02/22/russians-chinese-are-touting-their-vaccines-should-we-trust-them/


#52
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 23.02.2021
Заглавие:bSNL’s Michael Che said Israel only vaccinated its ‘Jewish half.’ Critics call the joke ‘an antisemitic trope.’


By Timothy Bella
February 23, 2021 at 5:32 a.m. EST
As “Weekend Update” on “Saturday Night Live” fired off jokes about the pandemic this weekend, anchor Michael Che turned his attention to Israel’s world-leading vaccination program, which has faced criticism for not extending access to Palestinian territories.
“Israel is reporting that they vaccinated half of their population,” said Che, the show’s co-head writer, “and I’m going to guess it’s the Jewish half.”
The eight-second segment, which was met with stifled laughter from viewers inside Studio 8H, has led Jewish organizations and Israeli leaders to accuse Che of leaning into “an antisemitic trope,” with the Anti-Defamation League on Monday night suggesting that “Weekend Update” this year had leaned into jokes that “inappropriately use Jews as the punchline.”
“Saturday’s deeply offensive joke about Israel’s COVID-19 vaccination process not only missed the mark, but crossed the line — basing the premise of the joke on factual inaccuracies and playing into an antisemitic trope in the process,” Jonathan Greenblatt, CEO of the Anti-Defamation League, said in a statement posted to Twitter.
Neither Che nor SNL has publicly responded to the blowback, while others have come to the comedian’s defense and even praised him for questioning Israel’s vaccination program. An editorial in the Jerusalem Post on Monday called the criticism “unreasonable,” noting that the Jewish community’s messaging toward more explicit examples of antisemitism would be diluted “when the same ammunition is loaded up to deal with Che’s joke.”
“Do the Jewish people or Israel gain anything from insinuating antisemitism was at play here?” the outlet wrote. “If everything is antisemitic, [then] nothing is, so the appellation must be used sparingly.”
Coronavirus vaccination has become the latest flash point in the conflict between Israel and Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank. Israel, which has administered more than 7.3 million doses and has made anyone over age 16 eligible for a shot, boasts the world’s fastest vaccination program.
But human rights groups have argued Israel has a moral and legal obligation to give access to vaccines to the roughly 5 million Palestinians living in territories the country controls, reported The Washington Post’s Steve Hendrix and Shira Rubin. Israeli officials have cited the Oslo Accords in arguing that the Palestinian Authority and Hamas are responsible for their own health systems.
First coronavirus vaccines arrive in Gaza Strip following blockage by Israel
Last week, the first 2,000 doses of the Russian Sputnik vaccine reached the Gaza Strip, amid accusations from Palestinian officials that Israel attempted to block the delivery for political reasons. The Palestinian minister of health announced Friday that Israel had agreed to vaccinate 100,000 Palestinians who regularly cross into the country to work. There have been nearly 755,000 coronavirus cases and about 5,600 deaths in Israel since the start of the pandemic, according to The Post’s coronavirus tracker.
Israel agrees to vaccinate Palestinian workers, Palestinian officials say
When Che delivered his joke on Saturday, the 37-year-old quickly drew the ire of pro-Israel advocates. Among them was Gilad Erdan, the Israeli ambassador to the United States, who urged Che to apologize over the weekend.
“I’m a big fan of humor but, perpetuating antisemitism is just not funny,” Erdan tweeted Sunday. “Your ‘joke’ is ignorant — the fact is that the success of our vaccination drive is exactly because every citizen of Israel — Jewish, Muslim, Christian — is entitled [to] it. Apologize!”
Israeli Health Minister Yuli Edelstein echoed Che’s joke as a form of antisemitism, calling the comedian’s words “a lie,” according to the Times of Israel.
A petition from the American Jewish Committee pushing for NBC to retract the joke claims that Che’s line was “a modern twist on a classic antisemitic trope that has inspired the mass murder of countless Jews.” The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations said in a news release that the group found the joke “deeply troubling.”
On Monday, Greenblatt said he had asked SNL executive producer Lorne Michaels “to take action both to repair the damage that’s been done and ensure that this does not happen again.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2021/02/23/michael-che-israel-vaccine-snl/


#53
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 24.02.2020
Заглавие: Israel doles out small batches of vaccine as diplomatic perks


By Steve Hendrix
February 24, 2021 at 11:57 a.m. EST
JERUSALEM — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is giving small amounts of surplus vaccine to several countries that have warming relations with Israel, including two that have moved their embassies to the contested city of Jerusalem, according to his office and local media reports.
The prime minister’s office said Tuesday that it had responded to several requests for donations from governments aware that Israel, which has fully inoculated more than a third of its population, had amassed a stockpile of vaccine. The answer was no for significant donations while Israel’s own vaccine campaign continued, the statement said, but yes to a few “symbolic” gifts, including one to health workers in the West Bank.
"Over the past month, a limited quantity of unused vaccines was accumulated; therefore, it has been decided to assist Palestinian Authority medical teams and several of the countries that contacted Israel with a symbolic quantity of vaccines," the statement said.
The announcement did not say how many doses would be donated or name the recipient countries. Israeli media, citing diplomatic sources, said they included Honduras and Guatemala, which have opened embassies in Jerusalem. Also on the list reportedly were Hungary, which recently opened a trade mission in the city, and the Czech Republic, which has said it intends to open a diplomatic office of some kind there soon. Jerusalem is claimed as a capital by both Israel and the Palestinians.
Israel’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs declined to comment.
Israel moves to head of vaccine queue, offering Pfizer access to country’s health-care database
Using vaccine as an apparent diplomatic reward was criticized by some public health experts and by Netanyahu’s opponents.
"The fact that Netanyahu trades in vaccines funded by Israeli taxpayers without discussion and accountability shows that he is running a kingdom and not a country," said Defense Minister Benny Gantz, who will oppose Netanyahu in elections next month.
Vaccine was also apparently a bargaining chip in a recent prisoner swap between Israel and Syria. In exchange for the return of an Israeli woman who illegally crossed the Syrian border, Israel reportedly agreed to pay for thousands of doses of the Russian Sputnik vaccine to be delivered to Damascus.
The portion of vaccine sent for Palestinian health workers follows criticism from human rights groups that Israel should do more to inoculate populations in the territories it controls. Israel contends that the 30-year-old Oslo accords leave health care to the governing Palestinian bodies, although it did send 5,000 doses to West Bank hospital workers earlier this month.
Israeli health officials have said they hope to provide more vaccine to the Palestinian territories as Israel’s vaccine needs are met. The Palestinian health minister said Saturday that her counterparts in Israel agreed to provide up to 100,000 shots for Palestinian workers who regularly cross into Israel to work.
Israel has yet to publicly confirm that arrangement. A public health adviser to the government said Wednesday that the plans were still being finalized. The symbolic donation announced Tuesday is apparently unrelated to that larger effort.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/middle_east/israel-vaccine-diplomacy/2021/02/24/528783e2-76ac-11eb-9489-8f7dacd51e75_story.html


#54
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 04.03.2021
Заглавие: WNBA players’ next cause: Educating themselves — and fans — on vaccine safety


By Candace Buckner
March 4, 2021 at 4:00 a.m. EST
This story was featured in The Optimist newsletter. Sign up here to receive stories of kindness, resilience and the best among us every Wednesday and Sunday.
Elizabeth Williams watched from her apartment in Turkey. Breanna Stewart logged in from the industrial heartland of Russia, resting her head on a table as she listened. Alysha Clark joined from a charter bus rolling through the French countryside, framed by her sun-drenched window seat.
Scattered across international time zones Tuesday, several WNBA players gathered on Zoom not to discuss basketball but their next mission as activists: learning as much as possible about coronavirus vaccines and then sharing that knowledge with fans.
The 2020 WNBA season was defined by the players’ off-the-court actions: a Say Her Name campaign to bring attention to the police killing of Breonna Taylor and a crusade to oust a team owner, Kelly Loeffler, from the U.S. Senate and then the league.
After that, “we weren’t really sure what the next step was,” Williams, the franchise player for the Atlanta Dream, said in a recent interview from Ankara, Turkey, where she plays for Botas Spor.
With many of the league’s stars playing overseas during the WNBA offseason, Terri Jackson, the players’ association executive director, advised them to take time to catch their breath after a weighty season inside their Florida bubble.
Instead of a break, Williams suggested the players take on public health.
“With covid still being the major driving force … the conversation shifted more about educating people about vaccines,” she said. “When we talk about Black lives matter, it also includes Black health matters.”
When sports returned last summer, while nurses and others complained they couldn’t get tested for the coronavirus, professional and college sports leagues contracted private labs to routinely and proactively test players for the coronavirus, raising questions about equity in America’s testing system. As vaccines became available late last year, a debate arose whether athletes would jump the vaccine line.
But as a new Major League Baseball season nears and the NBA struggles with outbreaks, many male athletes may not even want the vaccine. A “significant” percentage of players are hesitant to get vaccinated, the Wall Street Journal reported, and many are reluctant to appear in public service announcements to promote the vaccines’ efficacy, according to ESPN.
“It’s a real shame,” Gary Bennett, a Duke professor of medicine and global health who spoke to the players by Zoom, said in an interview. “The athletes in our country hold a very prized position and have a great opportunity to influence large segments of populations who are most at risk.”
“The WNBA can lead the charge,” Bennett continued, “and frankly, we need the men to follow.”
But first, players needed to educate themselves. Since January, on three Zooms organized by the union, nearly half of the WNBA players have listened to medical experts explain how the vaccines work, dispel myths and recount the history of vaccine hesitancy in the Black community.
Kelly Loeffler sells stake in WNBA team after clashing with players over Black Lives Matter
Black Americans are 2.9 times more likely to be hospitalized by covid-19 and 1.9 times more likely to die of it than Whites, according to the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention. But 41 percent of Black women and 45 percent of Black men say they will take a “wait and see” approach to the vaccine, according to analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation. (Surveys that account for political affiliation have shown that White Republicans, at 56 percent, are most likely to be uncertain about being vaccinated.)
Williams understood the trepidation among her peers in the WNBA, in which 70 percent of players are Black. Her parents are in the medical field, and Williams took Bennett’s “Health and Psychology and Behavior Change” class at Duke; she still envisions attending med school after retiring from basketball. And yet even she was hesitant about the vaccine at first as misinformation flooded her social media timeline: that the developers of the vaccines had placed a tracking microchip in the drug, that the mRNA vaccine would change the DNA of a fetus, that the shot could cause infertility in women.
“That’s when my brain was like: ‘Okay, there’s obviously truth in [the vaccine], and I have to find it,” Williams said, “and I have to dig into it.”
Williams began reading the work of experts such as Kizzmekia S. Corbett, the head of Coronavirus Vaccines at the National Institutes of Health, who helped design the Moderna vaccine. Last fall, Williams hosted her Instagram Live show, “E Talks With Docs.” Then, on Jan. 22, the union launched the first Zoom with a panel featuring Black and Brown women in the medical field.
“This particular sports league, unlike most of the others, has always been on the side of: ‘I do things for community,’" Altha Stewart, who has served as the WNBA medical director since the league’s inception, said during that session. “I have never seen the amount of outpouring of community service that happens in the WNBA ranks.”
On Zoom, players learned that a history of mistrust — dating from 1845, when James Marion Sims, the so-called “father of modern gynecology,” experimented on enslaved women without the use of anesthesia — factored into a lack of confidence in the Black community.
“I certainly understand … the historical fear of the medical institution that people in the Black community [have],” Corbett said in an email response to The Washington Post. “That is why I feel it is so important for influential voices, like WNBA players, to be invested in helping our community to progress beyond that history and beyond that fear.”
For starters, the goal of the sessions was to make players feel comfortable getting shots themselves when their turns come up. Some who are playing overseas already have: The Indiana Fever’s Tiffany Mitchell, who is playing in Israel, recently posted a photo of herself in a WNBA hoodie while getting the shot.
But the panels were also designed to help players share their newfound knowledge with their fans, especially Black and Brown women, and to encourage them to seek reliable information about the vaccine. According to the WNBPA, an informal survey identified 40 players willing to help vaccine-education campaigns, including Williams, 2016 MVP Nneka Ogumike and four-time champion and Olympic gold medalist Sue Bird.
“I met these educational sessions [with] skepticism, and through them the ignorance has peeled back,” Ogumike said. “I not only feel comfortable taking the vaccine, but I also feel comfortable advocating for people to be educated on it.”
The union is exploring collaborations with the Ad Council, Walgreens, Black Women’s Health Imperative and the National Council of Negro Women.
During Tuesday’s Zoom, several more of the league’s stars logged in for a presentation from the vice president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a trade group. Stewart, a two-time WNBA champion now playing in Russia, asked about the Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine. Kelsey Plum, a former No. 1 pick, asked whether any of the vaccine trials included the effects the drug may have on elite athletes. And Williams wanted to know how vaccines are distributed in impoverished countries.
Most of the players on the Zoom, some lounging in bed and wearing sweatpants, shied away from the camera. But they were clearly engaged.
“We realize how powerful our voices have been,” Ogumike said. “We really just want to meet the moment in a way that obviously continues to align with our engagement with the communities.”—
https://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/2021/03/04/wnba-coronavirus-vaccine-safety/


#55
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 07.03.2021
Заглавие: Europe debates vaccine passports as a way to save summer tourism


By Rick Noack
March 7, 2021 at 5:00 a.m. EST
BERLIN — Ahead of Europe's summer holiday season, some top destinations such as Greece and Spain are pushing the European Union to introduce digital "vaccine passports" to ease entry for visitors — and their tourism cash.
But what some countries see as a path toward reopening has been viewed by others, led by France and Germany, as a path toward a two-tier system that could leave the unvaccinated as outsiders in places such as gyms, restaurants and cinemas.
“Immunity passports could reinforce inequalities both within and between countries,” said Emilian Kavalski, a professor at the University of Nottingham’s campus in Ningbo, China.
Some countries have already taken steps in that direction.
In Britain, now outside the E.U., Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said vaccine certificates are “under consideration” even as other British officials dismissed the idea. Israel recently launched digital vaccination certificates to allow access to gyms or restaurants.
Israel also agreed to trial a travel bubble with E.U. members Greece and Cyprus to open the door for vaccinated travelers. Meanwhile, Cyprus has also said it will begin in May to welcome vaccinated visitors from Britain.
What you need to know about vaccine passports
The European Commission is expected to submit a proposal on how to bridge the divides with the bloc this month, which could lay out a joint plan for digital vaccination certificates that would work across the E.U. and potentially beyond.
Compromise proposals could include exceptions for individuals who have recovered from covid-19 or those who can provide a recent negative test result.
It is unclear what a digital vaccine certificate would look like. Personalized QR codes — used in Israel and difficult to forge — would be one possible option. 
But finding common ground across the E.U. will not be easy. Vaccination rates vary widely. So does the political will to put the vaccinated in the fast lane for travel — with countries most dependent on tourism cash leading the way.
“Those who are vaccinated should have full freedom,” said Austria’s Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, who has joined Greece and Spain in support of vaccination documents.
“Some countries are very much preoccupied with now,” Greece’s tourism minister, Harry Theocharis, told the Financial Times last month, in an apparent reference of German and French hesitancy.
Tourism accounts for about 20 percent of Greece’s GDP, which declined by 10 percent last year.
“People will gradually realize that there is not much of an alternative,” Andreas Papatheodorou, a Greek tourism researcher, said. If no E.U.-wide solution can be found, Greece and other countries may opt for bilateral deals, he said.
Digital health records may become part of travel, but standards are lacking
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has signaled openness to study possible vaccination certificates later this year. But she has insisted treating vaccinated travelers preferentially now “isn’t on the agenda, given the low vaccination coverage at this point.”
French officials have made the same argument. They also appear worried about how a proposed pass would be received by the large number of vaccine skeptics in the country. Only around half the population was willing to get vaccinated when the rollout began two months ago.
French vaccine approval has recently inched upward. Some officials still fear a “vaccination passport” would risk undoing that progress.
Some groups — including members of ethnic minorities or pregnant women — would be disproportionately impacted, because covid vaccination rates among them are lower than in the general population, according to recent studies. Young people who are last in line to receive vaccines or older people with no smartphones would also be disadvantaged.
There is also still no scientific consensus on the extent to which vaccines reduce transmission of the virus, raising the possibility that vaccinated travelers may spread the virus even if they do not get sick themselves, said Melinda Mills, director of the Leverhulme Centre for Demographic Science at Oxford University.
President Biden said last week that there will be enough vaccines for all U.S. adults by May. The European Commission hopes to vaccinate 70 percent of the E.U.’s adult population by the end of the summer, which would still leave more than 100 million Europeans without immunization in late September.
“If you introduce this right away, you’d be excluding a huge group just on age-based discrimination,” Mills said of possible “vaccine passports,” adding that court challenges would probably follow.
Other questions are piling up, too.
Would E.U. citizens qualify for a certificate if they receive vaccines not approved by the E.U. drug regulator, such as Russia’s Sputnik V and Chinese vaccines? What happens if variants spread that reduce some vaccines’ efficacy?
Then there are privacy concerns. For decades, paper certificates have been used for travel to show vaccinations against yellow fever and other diseases.
But a digital certification, potentially with QR-codes, raises worries about whether the data could be used to track travelers’ movements.
Some global companies have already vowed to make use of their right to ban customers. Alan Joyce, the head of Australia’s carrier Qantas, said last year that proof of vaccination would soon become a prerequisite for flying.
“I think that's going to be a common thing, talking to my colleagues in other airlines around the globe,” he said. Similar requirements could be introduced for people entering sports stadiums or workplaces.
The idea of requiring travelers to carry health certificates is a relatively modern concept, said Kavalski, who has researched the historical evolution of passports.
Passports were widely introduced during World War I in what some saw as a temporary measure. But the 1918 flu pandemic helped shape international travel with “the practice of allowing only ‘healthy’ bodies to cross borders,” Kavalski said.
“I would say the [current] pandemic will have a lasting impact on the practices and experience of border crossing,” Kavalski said.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/europe-vaccine-passport-travel/2021/03/05/60db1d8a-7aaa-11eb-8c5e-32e47b42b51b_story.html


#56
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 08.03.2020
Заглавие: After delays and ethics debates, Israel begins vaccinating 100,000 Palestinian day laborers


By Shira Rubin
March 8, 2021 at 7:44 a.m. EST
SHA’AR EFRAIM, Israel — Israel on Monday kicked off its two-week campaign to vaccinate more than 100,000 Palestinians carrying Israeli work permits even as inoculations remain a distant dream for most residents of the West Bank.
At the crossing of Sha'ar Efraim, the Israeli military set up one of eight vaccination centers along the 440-mile-long barrier dividing Israel from the Palestinian territories with the capacity to vaccinate 1,000 people a day.
“It is within both Israeli and Palestinian interests that we vaccinate the workers since, as we know, coronavirus knows no geographical boundaries,” said Lior Wisbaum, foreign relations officer at Cogat, the Israeli military agency that coordinates with the Palestinian Authority.
Israel is starting to vaccinate, but Palestinians may have to wait months
On Tuesday, Cogat is scheduled to open four similar vaccination clinics at industrial centers within the West Bank.
Some 80,000 Palestinians from the West Bank work in Israel proper, mostly in construction, agriculture and other menial fields. An additional 35,000 work in Israeli settlements in the West Bank. Two-thirds of those day laborers have been unemployed since April, according to a report by the Bank of Israel.
“In light of the long-standing partnership between Israeli employers and workers and Palestinian workers at construction sites, we believe it would be fair and even moral to promote” their vaccination, said a statement by the Israeli Builders Association — which has been petitioning Israel’s Health Ministry for weeks to vaccinate them.
“There is no other way out of this than the vaccine,” said Muawar Ahmad, a worker at the Sha’ar Efraim crossing who said he was the first Palestinian to be inoculated as part of the Israeli program when it conducted a pilot run Thursday. “It is a way to freedom, for everyone.”
Human rights groups have accused Israel of shirking its legal obligations to inoculate Palestinians living only miles away and under its military occupation. The Israeli Health Ministry has countered that under the Oslo accords, the Palestinian Authority is responsible for managing health care within its jurisdiction.
Nonetheless, it has admitted that it is in Israel’s interest to extend vaccinations into a neighboring population that sends tens of thousands of laborers into the country every day.
Palestinians who work in Israel wait to receive the Moderna vaccine at the Tarkumiya crossing on March 8. (Sebastian Scheiner/AP)
Since December, Israel has established itself as one of the world’s fastest inoculated countries, with now more than 90 percent of the 50-and-older population fully vaccinated or recovered from the coronavirus.
But in the adjacent West Bank, the ruling PA has acquired only about 12,000 coronavirus vaccine doses, including 2,000 that have been shared from Israel’s Moderna supply and 10,000 from Russia’s Sputnik V. In recent weeks, Gaza has received 2,000 Sputnik V doses from the PA and an additional 20,000 of the same brand from the United Arab Emirates.
“We depend totally on donations, and the donors, they have their own domestic priorities now,” said Salwa Najjab, a member of the Palestinian national coronavirus committee. “The people feel like they are in prison.”
Palestinian officials have said they also expect to receive 37,000 Pfizer-BioNTech doses and 168,000 AstraZeneca doses, through the global-sharing initiative Covax, over the coming months, with the expectations to ultimately receive 2 million AstraZeneca doses.
Last month, China also committed to donating several thousand doses of its own vaccine brand, Sinovac, to the Palestinians, though a timeline has not been announced.
As the majority of the roughly 5 million Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip remain unvaccinated, coronavirus infections are on the rise, and 95 percent of the intensive care unit beds in West Bank hospitals are occupied.
Officials in the West Bank have identified schools and the foreign coronavirus mutations as major causes for the rapid spread of the infection.
Kamal Shakhra, head of the coronavirus department in the Palestinian Ministry of Health, said in an interview with Voice of Palestine Radio that the variant that was first found in Britain appeared in the overwhelming majority of a randomized sample study of 800 infections. He said that most came from Palestinians who spent time in Israel.
The World Bank has said that the Palestinian territories have one of the lowest testing rates in the Middle East and North Africa, estimating a positivity rate of over 21 percent in the West Bank and Gaza.
“As the pandemic becomes even more prolonged, the additional strains on the fragile socioeconomic and health systems make it much harder to effectively deal with the crisis,” said Kanthan Shankar, the World Bank country director for the West Bank and Gaza.
More than 1,500 people have died of the coronavirus in the West Bank, while Gaza has reported 553 deaths.
“No one from the Palestinian Authority is coming to help, so yes, it is the responsibility of the state of Israel” to step in, said Bakr Seruji, a day laborer and father of seven from the Palestinian town of Tulkarem, sipping coffee after receiving a vaccination Monday morning. “The Israelis, we live with them, we are the same people; this is our only chance.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/middle_east/vaccine-israel-palestinian-palestine/2021/03/08/c43b6390-7fef-11eb-be22-32d331d87530_story.html


#57
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 09.03.2021
Заглавие: Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine may be made in Italy as Europe seeks to expand options


By Robyn Dixon
March 9, 2021 at 9:57 a.m. EST
MOSCOW — The backers of Russia's Sputnik V vaccine signed a deal Tuesday that could pave the way for production in Italy, a potential major step in Moscow's efforts to expand its vaccine reach in the West.
The deal was announced by the Italian-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Russia's sovereign wealth fund, known as the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which supported Sputnik V's development.
But the vaccine still has to win regulatory approval from the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and Italian regulatory authorities before production can go ahead.
Dozens of countries have registered the Sputnik V vaccine, but European Union approval would be seen by Moscow as significant validation of its scientific work and the Kremlin’s attempt to use Sputnik to advance its global influence.
In Russia, vaccine efforts have been underway for months but remain relatively slow outside big cities such as Moscow and St. Petersburg.
Few details of the potential Russia-E.U. deal have been made public. But European governments have been under pressure over their slow rollout of vaccines, including glitches over supply. The European Union has registered three vaccines: the ones developed by Pfizer and BioNTech, Moderna, and AstraZeneca and Oxford.
A virus tsunami: How the underestimated coronavirus overtook the world
The deal to manufacture Sputnik V in Italy comes after the E.U. medical regulators last week began a rolling review of Sputnik V, following the publication of interim results on the Russian vaccine in the medical journal the Lancet in February that suggested the vaccine was safe and had an efficacy rate of 91.6 percent.
A Palestinian health worker displays a vial of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine in Gaza City on Feb. 24. (Mohammed Salem/Reuters)
The deal, first reported by Bloomberg News, would see Swiss pharmaceutical firm Adienne Pharma & Biotech SA manufacture the Russian vaccine in the Milan region, according to the firm’s president, Antonio Francesco Di Naro.
Russia has been battling to overcome global skepticism of its Sputnik V vaccine. Russian authorities went ahead with registration and mass distribution last year, well before the completion of Phase 3 trials, in their effort to be the first to bring a vaccine to the global market.
Live updates: The latest on the pandemic
The Kremlin reacted angrily to comments by EMA Chairwoman Christa Wirthumer-Hoche late Sunday that she would advise European countries against emergency authorization of Sputnik V in Europe before its approval by the EMA.
“It’s somewhat comparable to Russian roulette. I would strongly advise against a national emergency authorization,” she said, speaking on Austrian television, adding there was not sufficient data about the vaccine’s safety. She said the vaccine must meet European Union standards on quality control and efficacy.
“We could have Sputnik V on the market in the future, when we’ve examined the necessary data,” she said.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Tuesday that her comment was both “unfortunate” and “inappropriate.”
Sputnik V’s developers demanded an apology in a comment posted on Twitter and questioned “possible political interference” in the EMA’s rolling review.
Peskov on Tuesday also dismissed State Department claims that several websites associated with Russian intelligence agencies were spreading disinformation about Western vaccines. He said Russia was against politicizing vaccines. “We don’t understand why such statements have been made, and we will continue to patiently explain that such statements are completely absurd,” Peskov said.
According to the RDIF, Sputnik V has been registered in 46 countries. Russia says it will be ready to provide 50 million vaccine doses to Europe, beginning in June.
RDIF head Kirill Dmitriev told Italian television Sunday that Russia has also formed a partnership with a German firm and is in talks with French companies.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/russia-italy-sputnik-vaccine-europe/2021/03/09/aa979e12-80d6-11eb-be22-32d331d87530_story.html




#58
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 11.03.2021
Заглавие: Biden faces pressure to distribute vaccines worldwide, while Americans still need them at home


By Anne Gearan
and 
Miriam Berger
March 11, 2021 at 1:29 p.m. EST
President Biden faces growing pressure to distribute coronavirus vaccines to other countries in response to aggressive “vaccine diplomacy” campaigns by China and Russia, a step he has until now ruled out while millions of Americans are still urgently seeking immunizations.
China’s efforts in particular will be a focus of a meeting Friday between Biden and the leaders of Australia, India and Japan. Aides say the four leaders may discuss an agreement in principle to pass out vaccine surpluses after their home populations’ needs have essentially been met.
The United States’ authoritarian adversaries — who worry far less about domestic opinion — have the field mostly free for the moment to send vaccines to nations from Mexico to Lebanon to Uzbekistan.
That has sparked a debate within the administration about how to balance national security, humanitarian needs and political concerns. Activists and experts warn that the United States could be missing a unique opportunity to regain worldwide influence after the isolationism of the Trump years.
J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Global Health Policy Center at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the Biden administration should not underestimate the risk of losing out in a soft-power contest that authoritarian nations could exploit for years.
“The Chinese and the Russians are advancing their vaccine diplomacy and are winning friends and influencing people and expanding their sphere of influence,” he said.
Beijing, for example, has promised to deliver Chinese-made vaccines to more than 50 nations, including nuclear-armed Pakistan, whose cooperation is key to a successful U.S. military withdrawal from Afghanistan, and the Philippines, an anchor for U.S. operations in Southeast Asia and traditionally a bulwark against Chinese military expansion.
Russia is pushing hard to raise the profile of its homegrown Sputnik V vaccine by pursuing numerous licensing deals. Russian vaccine backers signed an agreement Tuesday that could pave the way for production in Italy, a potentially big step in expanding Moscow’s efforts into the West.
Krishna Udayakumar, director of the Duke Global Health Innovation Center, said that the United States is “missing the opportunity to more strongly assert U.S. leadership on the global stage.”
Udayakumar said the United States could donate more vaccines to other countries without significantly affecting their availability to Americans. “That’s especially striking in our own backyard in Latin America, where the burden of covid is enormous and countries are struggling,” he said.
Biden disappointed Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador last week by taking U.S. vaccine donation off the table for now.
Still, the reaction among Americans could be explosive if Biden supplies vaccines to other countries while many in the United States are still struggling to get the shots. Biden signaled this week that he feels pressure to balance domestic and global needs.
“If we have a surplus, we’re going to share it with the rest of the world,” he said Wednesday, when pressed on the issue. “We’re going to start off making sure Americans are taken care of first, but we’re then going to try to help the rest of the world.”
His remark followed an announcement that the United States has secured 100 million more doses of the single-dose vaccine developed by Johnson & Johnson, bringing the projected U.S. supply far past the number of Americans in line to receive shots this year.
Demand still outpaces supply in most of the country, but that is beginning to change.
How Biden’s vaccine plan compares to those in other countries
The administration has said it has secured enough supply to offer all American adults a vaccine by the end of May, although officials caution that having vaccine on hand is not the same as getting doses administered, given challenges such as access to remote areas and the wariness of some communities to get the vaccine.
Biden administration officials also say they want to build in redundancy, in case of problems with delivery schedules. “I’m doing this because, in this wartime effort, we need maximum flexibility,” Biden said about the additional doses.
Still, if all goes well, the United States would have an oversupply of vaccine later this year. The administration has not said how much vaccine it considers sufficient, or what threshold it would set before considering exporting vaccines.
Biden has joined Covax, an international vaccine consortium that aims to make vaccine distribution more equitable, but the United States’ promised $4 billion contribution is not a direct handout of U.S.-made vials on the model that China and other nations are pursuing. It is also a departure from the muscular U.S. efforts directed at Ebola, HIV, smallpox and other scourges.
Even so, Biden appeared this week to be laying the groundwork for an argument that by protecting other nations, the United States also would be protecting Americans. “This is not something that can be stopped by a fence, no matter how high you build a fence or a wall. So we’re not going be ultimately safe until the world is safe,” he said.
Coronavirus hospitalizations fall as officials urge caution in lifting restrictions
Biden has staked the success of his presidency on an all-out effort to turn the corner on the coronavirus pandemic, which has killed more than 528,000 Americans and hampered the country for a year. Rapid vaccination is crucial to reopening businesses and schools.
Biden’s advisers say that his practical approach to the pandemic was a major factor in defeating former president Donald Trump and that he must deliver for Americans before all else.
Biden is navigating a complex political landscape when it comes to the coronavirus. Every Republican in Congress voted against his $1.9 trillion economic stimulus package this week, but Republicans are welcoming the national vaccine rollout efforts. Atop that is a general suspicion among many Americans of foreign aid and engagement that has taken on a more acute, nationalist tone during the pandemic.
Trump greeted news of the additional vaccine purchase Wednesday by taking credit for vaccine development and repeating his racially charged characterization of the respiratory illness that originated in China.
“I hope everyone remembers when they’re getting the COVID-19 (often referred to as the China Virus) Vaccine, that if I wasn’t President, you wouldn’t be getting that beautiful ‘shot’ for 5 years, at best, and probably wouldn’t be getting it at all,” Trump wrote in a statement. “I hope everyone remembers!”
More than 30 million people in the United States — about 10 percent of the population — have been fully vaccinated. The nation is averaging about 2.1 million doses administered per day, up from about 1.5 million a month ago.
Russian vaccine may be made in Italy as Europe looks to expand supply
Britain, Canada and many European nations also are among the wealthy parts of the world that have secured vaccine supplies more than equal to their populations. Despite occasional problems with delivering doses, the overall global picture is one of haves vs. have-nots, as the countries receiving handouts generally are poorer and have less domestic manufacturing capability.
Some activists and scholars warned that for both moral and strategic reasons, the Biden administration should not wait too long to help other countries in need.
The ONE Campaign is one of several advocacy groups urging the administration to share the U.S. stockpile with countries unable to procure the vaccines, as well as to lay out a distribution plan for excess doses.
Jenny Ottenhoff, the senior policy director for the nonpartisan anti-poverty organization, cautioned against matching U.S. adversaries with one-off deliveries to friends or would-be friends of the United States.
“I think it’s a really slippery slope for countries to start using vaccines as a political bargaining chip,” Ottenhoff said. “We need to ensure that the right vaccines are going to the right places and getting into the arms of those who are most vulnerable.”
Morrison, of the Global Health Policy Center, said the Biden administration is taking a “let’s just wait a bit” approach to vaccine diplomacy.
“There is considerable caution about leaning heavily in on the international agenda under current circumstances, where there is this hypersensitivity and great uncertainty” around vaccine doses in the United States, Morrison said. “The outstanding question is: How do you sell this to Americans under these circumstances?”
Secretary of State Antony Blinken has called China the world’s “biggest geopolitical test.” He and other administration officials have pledged to counter Chinese efforts to win influence and financial dependency among nations in Africa and elsewhere, and to head off Chinese attempts to attain clout within international organizations such as the World Health Organization.
Blinken and national security adviser Jake Sullivan will meet face-to-face with their Chinese counterparts next week.
Russia’s Sputnik V may be made in Italy as Moscow expands influence
Thomas Bollyky, the director of the Global Health Program at the Council on Foreign Relations, said that the countries donating vaccines have either largely gotten their coronavirus outbreaks under control, or do not have the domestic capacity to distribute many of the doses they procured or produced.
A few, including India, are U.S. partners. Israel, a close ally of the United States, plans to distribute excess supply to about 20 friendly nations in the coming weeks. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu drew criticism for saying that some far-flung recipients were being rewarded for actions benefiting Israel, while Palestinians in the West Bank are struggling to get vaccines.
“The donations that we’ve seen so far have been useful in that they’ve started vaccination campaigns in some countries,” Bollyky said, citing India’s donations to neighboring countries as an example. “But they are no answer for meeting global demand for vaccines.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/biden-vaccine-global-distribution/2021/03/11/62039c40-81db-11eb-81db-b02f0398f49a_story.html


#59
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 16.03.2021
Заглавие: U.S. officials pushed Brazil to reject Russia’s coronavirus vaccine, according to HHS report


Russia hopes to boost its image worldwide with the Sputnik V vaccine.


By Antonia Noori Farzan
 and 
Heloísa Traiano
 
March 16, 2021 at 11:58 a.m. EDT
Buried deep in the dry, 72-page annual report of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services lay a startling admission: U.S. health officials under President Donald Trump worked to convince Brazil to reject Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine.
The document, released in January, drew little attention at first. But that changed on Monday when the official Twitter account for the Sputnik V vaccine posted a screenshot of the previously overlooked claim, citing a report by Brasil Wire, and criticized the United States for effectively blocking Russia’s attempts at vaccine diplomacy.
“We believe countries should work together to save lives,” the tweet read. “Efforts to undermine the vaccines are unethical and are costing lives.”
Brazil, which has the second-highest coronavirus death toll worldwide, has struggled to obtain adequate vaccine supplies. But the Health Attaché office within HHS’s Office of Global Affairs pushed the country to turn down offers of help from the Russians last year, according to the report.
Under a section titled “Combating malign influences in the Americas,” the HHS report states that countries including Russia “are working to increase their influence in the region to the detriment of US safety and security.” The global affairs office coordinated with other U.S. government agencies “to dissuade countries in the region from accepting aid from these ill-intentioned states,” it says.
In a Monday night statement, the U.S. Embassy in Brazil said that its diplomats “have never discouraged Brazil from accepting vaccines against Covid-19 that have been authorized by their respective regulatory bodies.” But that response didn’t amount to a full denial, since Brazilian regulators have yet to approve the Sputnik V vaccine.
An HHS spokesman told The Washington Post that the department is “not in a position to comment on vaccines that have not been authorized by the Food and Drug Administration for use in the U.S” or to “discourage Brazil or any other nation from accepting vaccines that have been authorized by their respective regulators.”
In a statement, Brazil’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that “the Embassy of Brazil in Washington has not received consultations or actions from United States authorities or companies regarding the possible purchase, by Brazil, of the Russian vaccine against Covid-19.”
Negotiations over vaccine purchases “have been guided by principles such as the sense of urgency and the sovereign choice of suppliers,” the statement said.
A Kremlin spokesman declined to comment directly on the HHS report on Tuesday, according to Reuters, but said that Sputnik V was never given a fair chance to succeed because so many countries are being urged not to buy it.
“In many countries the scale of pressure is quite unprecedented,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov was quoted as saying.
Did we underestimate Russia’s vaccine?
Initial skepticism toward Russia’s coronavirus vaccine was rooted in more than just politics: The shot was released before medical trials were complete. But it’s now been approved in more than a dozen countries. A recent peer-review study in respected British medical journal the Lancet found that its efficacy was on par with the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines.
And with wealthier nations hoarding “Western” vaccines, a growing number of nations have turned to Russia, giving the Kremlin an image boost worldwide.
Brazil’s Bolsonaro tests positive for coronavirus
Even Brazil has gotten on board, despite the apparent pressure and the fact that its regulators still haven’t signed off. Last week, the government announced that it had reached a deal to buy 10 million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine.
The federal government announced its purchase of the Sputnik V vaccine one day after state governors had signed a deal with Russia to bring almost four times more doses to Brazil.
Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and his government have faced widespread criticism over slow negotiations to purchase vaccines from foreign companies. Over the past year, Bolsonaro has repeatedly dismissed the threat posed by covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. He also tested positive twice for the coronavirus in July.
Meanwhile, the virus continues to spread rapidly in the country, straining an already overburdened health-care system. Only 2.3 percent of the population has received the two doses of the AstraZeneca or Sinovac vaccine.
Heloísa Traiano in Rio de Janeiro contributed to this report.




https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/03/16/hhs-brazil-sputnik-russia/




#60
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 17.03.2021
Заглавие The Health 202: Trump says he 'recommends' the coronavirus vaccines


By Paige Winfield Cunningham
Reporter 
March 17, 2021 at 7:37 a.m. EDT
OUCH: U.S. officials pushed Brazil to reject Russia’s coronavirus vaccine.
The admission came in a 72-page annual Department of Health and Human Services report released last year, but it was highlighted yesterday when the official Twitter account for the Sputnik V vaccine posted a screenshot of the claim, Antonia Noori Farzan and Heloísa Traiano write for The Post.
“We believe countries should work together to save lives,” the tweet read. “Efforts to undermine the vaccines are unethical and are costing lives.”
The Health Attaché office within HHS’s Office of Global Affairs pushed Brazil to turn down offers of Russian vaccines last year, according to the report. While the Russian vaccine faced initial skepticism, it has now been approved in more than a dozen countries, although not yet in Brazil. A recent peer-reviewed study in the British medical journal Lancet found the vaccine's efficacy on par with the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines.
Brazil has the second-highest death toll from the virus worldwide and has struggled to obtain vaccine supply. So far, only 2.3 percent of its population has been fully vaccinated with shots from AstraZeneca or Sinovac.
The case is another example of the ways in which vaccines have become a form of diplomatic currency. China, which has been promoting its own coronavirus shots, recently announced that foreigners who received one of several Chinese vaccines will receive streamlined entry into the country.
The United States has been less visible in the vaccine soft-power game so far, but that may soon change. Biden said that his administration is in talks with several countries about how it will share extra vaccine doses. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/03/17/health-202-trump-says-he-recommends-coronavirus-vaccines/


#61
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 17.03.2021
Заглавие: E.U. unveils vaccine passport plan to enable summer travel


By Rick Noack
and 
Quentin Ariès
March 17, 2021 at 12:35 p.m. EDT
BERLIN — The European Union on Wednesday launched a closely watched effort to create a joint vaccination passport for its more than 440 million citizens and residents, embarking on a tightrope walk between economic pressures, discrimination fears and concerns over Europe's slow vaccination progress.
Supporters hope the “digital green certificates” will be ready by June, which could help to salvage the European summer tourism season and even serve as a model that could be extended to the United States and other countries. But E.U. countries lag far behind the United States in vaccinations, which has raised concerns that the passport plan could be launched prematurely.
The passes are expected to be digital or paper documents for travelers to prove that they have been vaccinated, that they recovered from the virus or recently tested negative for it. In many cases, this could free travelers from quarantine obligations.
Those privileges could eventually also apply to Americans or British citizens traveling to continental Europe, given that all vaccines approved in the two countries are also approved for use in the European Union. Greece, Cyprus and several other E.U. countries have already announced or are working on plans to welcome British travelers back within months. But E.U. borders will remain closed to most Americans — even those who are vaccinated — until the bloc lifts its travel restrictions.
An easing of those restrictions remains unlikely in the short run, amid persistent E.U. concerns over new coronavirus variants. President Biden also reimposed an entry ban on most European travelers in January, which could become another obstacle, as E.U. officials have cited reciprocity as a factor in their decision-making on travel restrictions.
The World Health Organization on March 15 urged countries to be "careful" certifying vaccines while accessibility in different countries remains inequitable. (Reuters)
The European passport initiative appears in some ways modeled on passes already in use in Israel, where QR codes allow fully vaccinated people access to gyms or restaurants.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said the aim in Europe is to have crucial information on travelers’ covid-19 status “mutually recognized in every member state.”
But the plans unveiled Wednesday leave many of the most controversial points up to member states, including the question for which activities the passes would become mandatory.
Whereas Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz recently said that the “vaccinated should have full freedom,” indicating support for an approach similar to the one in place in Israel, some E.U. leaders still see the vaccine certificates mostly as a way to resume European travel.
With many Europeans unvaccinated and some receiving products that aren’t yet approved by the E.U. medical regulator, concerns over unequal treatment have mounted. E.U. member Hungary, for instance, has vaccinated some of its citizens with Russia’s Sputnik V and Chinese vaccines that are not currently recommended for use by the E.U. medical regulator. Under the E.U. proposal, it would be up to member states to decide if they accept those vaccines as sufficient proof of immunity.
“Beyond being a distraction from the task of vaccination, the pass could end up creating a two-tier society,” Israel Butler of the Civil Liberties Union for Europe, a human rights watchdog, said in a response Wednesday.
The vaccination passport plans follow months of lobbying from tourism-dependent European top destinations such as Greece and Spain, which see the passes as an opportunity to revive their tourism sectors. About 20 percent of Greece’s gross domestic product depends on tourism, for example.
But Europe’s two most populous countries — France and Germany — have approached the plans with more caution, which could still derail them as they require the approval of the European Parliament and of member states.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel recently said that preferential treatment of vaccinated travelers “isn’t on the agenda, given the low vaccination coverage at this point.”
There is also still no scientific consensus on the extent to which vaccinations prevent the transmission of the virus.
The German and French stalling has frustrated officials in many southern European countries. Greece, Cyprus and other nations recently announced plans to set up bilateral agreements unless an E.U.-wide solution can be found.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/vaccine-passports-europe-travel/2021/03/17/65d645d4-8672-11eb-be4a-24b89f616f2c_story.html


#62
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 17.03.2021
Заглавие: Brazil’s rolling coronavirus disaster is a global problem


By Ishaan Tharoor
Columnist
March 17, 2021 at 12:00 a.m. EDT
It’s impossible to overlook the role played by Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro. The far-right firebrand bumbled through the pandemic — famously deeming the coronavirus little more than a “measly flu” a year ago and, more recently in December, declaring that the outbreak had reached its “tail end.” He contracted the virus himself but continued to tout unproven remedies and raged against social distancing measures and other precautions advocated by regional officials and his political adversaries. Under Bolsonaro’s watch, Brazil “succumbed to denialism, disorganization, apathy, hedonism and medical quackery,” wrote McCoy.
In an illustration of the chaos, Bolsonaro announced this week that he would be appointing a new health minister — the country’s fourth since the pandemic began. The first two fell afoul of the president after questioning his leadership and covid-era decision-making. The third, an active-duty general with no medical training, is now being investigated by the country’s top court for alleged neglect that led to the collapse of the health system in Amazonas state earlier this year.
During a briefing Tuesday, Marcelo Queiroga, a cardiologist who will transition into the role of health minister in the coming days, reiterated his loyalty to Bolsonaro. “The president is very worried about the situation,” he said.
Critics wonder if that’s true. Brazil’s lack of effective national coordination on the pandemic is, in part, Bolsonaro’s fault. He and his allies initially pushed misinformation downplaying the threat of the virus and the efficacy of social distancing and masks. Later, Bolsonaro questioned the value of vaccines, stoking anti-Beijing sentiment even as a Chinese vaccine was undergoing trials in Brazil. Last October, he blocked federal government plans to purchase tens of millions of doses of the Sinovac vaccine.
On this front, Bolsonaro had a fellow traveler in former president Donald Trump, who similarly scorned covid-era lockdowns and sought to blame his domestic rivals, as well as China, for the woes of the pandemic. Last year, the Trump administration also pressured Brazil to not obtain the Russian Sputnik V vaccine for its population.
But with Trump gone and infections spiking, Bolsonaro is in the midst of a humiliating about-face. His government announced last week that it had ordered 10 million doses of the Russian vaccine. And it had to go to China, cap in hand, to request tens of millions of doses of a Chinese vaccine, as well as the raw materials to mass produce it on Brazilian soil.
    Brazil health ministry asked Chinese ambassador in letter for doses of the Sinopharm vaccine, warns vaccination campaign could stop as doses of CoronaVac and other vaccines run out. G1 https://t.co/TFlksqO5D1
    — Dom Phillips (@domphillips) March 10, 2021
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/03/17/brazil-coronavirus-disaster-bolsonaro/


#63
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 18.03.2020
Заглавие: Europe’s ultra-cautious vaccine strategy is itself a risky bet


By Adam Taylor
Reporter 
March 18, 2021 at 12:00 a.m. EDT
Europe’s carefully planned vaccination drive has turned into a major crisis. The European Union has fallen behind in rates of vaccination compared with other developed nations, apparently the result of a procurement process that failed to be competitive amid global demand.
The situation has become so fraught that European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Wednesday that Brussels was considering whether to block vaccine exports to make sure “Europe gets its fair share” — an announcement that drew many angry responses from non-E.U. countries expecting doses.
The supply problem has been compounded this week by a number of European governments’ decisions to block the use of AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine because of safety concerns — not only disrupting the supply of the vaccine but potentially causing long-term public concerns about the drug, even if it is later proven safe, as many experts predict.
Germany, Italy, Spain, Ireland and France are among the countries that have suspended the use of the vaccine, which was developed amid much fanfare by researchers at Oxford University and makes up a significant part of the vaccine supply across the continent. Their worry is related to a number of blood-clotting incidents, some fatal, among those who have received the jab.
The prevailing view among scientists is that these incidents are likely to be unrelated to the inoculation — essentially, that correlation does not mean causation.
“Vaccines protect against one thing: the infection or the infection plus disease,” Susan Ellenberg, a biostatistician at the University of Pennsylvania, told Stat News this week. “They don’t protect you against everything else that might possibly happen to you.”
Europe’s top drug regulator, the European Medicines Agency (EMA), is expected to announce the initial results of a safety review Thursday, hopefully providing some much-needed clarity. But the toll has already been high for Europe either way, with expired doses, surging cases and weakened morale.
As The Washington Post’s Michael Birnbaum, Chico Harlan and Stefano Pitrelli report, some parts of Europe are now already in their third wave of infections. “With every day of vaccination delay, there are hospitalizations and deaths,” said Fabrizio Pregliasco, a virologist at the University of Milan in Italy — a country once again locking down because of a surge in cases.
In Europe, the biggest problem is not recklessness, but cautiousness. The continent was hit hard and early in the pandemic. Its success in the year since has varied across the Europe, with almost all nations — even ones that followed most recommended measures — suffering large tolls.
To some extent, this suggests that some elements of the virus’s spread may be out of government control. But getting vaccines in people’s arms is a metric very much in government control.
And that’s where Europe’s leaders, including those praised for their reason and technocratic inclinations, such as Germany’s Angela Merkel, have fallen behind the brasher political-decision making of countries including Britain, Israel and the United States, as well as nimbler governments like Chile.
Those nations adopted strong-arm tactics to ensure a variety of doses, quickly seeking out independent deals with manufacturers. Most European nations, meanwhile, stuck with the E.U.'s more measured approach and finalized deals later. The sticking point, according to accounts from insiders, was price.
Another wrinkle came later, when Europe watched mass rollouts of the vaccine produced by Pfizer and developed by BioNTech — a German company — take place in the United States, Britain and Israel, before the EMA had even approved the drug.
The EMA has now approved four different vaccines. But there have been significant concerns among national regulators about AstraZeneca, which was initially restricted in Germany and elsewhere for use on those over 65 because of limited data for that age group. The move was reversed after results from England, where the vaccine is being widely used, were studied.
The new concern about blood clots reflects the chaotically cautious nature of many European authorities, which have halted vaccinations even though both the EMA and the World Health Organization have said they should continue during the investigation. And the motivation may not simply be public health.
“It was a political choice,” Nicola Magrini, the director of Italy’s Medicines Agency, told La Repubblica newspaper Monday. Leaders saw other countries pausing the drug and made the decision to do so as well, rather than listen to global public health bodies.
In some ways, the situation is a product of the strengths and weaknesses of the E.U. It is a 27-member bloc, with a larger and more varied population than the United States, as well as a bigger economy. When it moves in unison, it can be powerful, but its decision-making is often unwieldy and unpredictable.
The E.U. was, for example, largely able to procure cheaper vaccine doses than the United States through its heft — a significant financial move, considering the supply needed. But its consensus-based decision-making process has contributed to the slow delivery of those doses, potentially negating any economic benefits.
The contrast stands starkly against the rollout in Britain, which was technically a part of the bloc until last year. London opted out of Europe’s vaccine procurement and instead forged ahead alone; that looks like a bright spot for Prime Minister Boris Johnson amid Britain’s otherwise disastrous pandemic performance.
Only a handful of E.U. states broke with the bloc’s vaccine orthodoxy. Hungary has vaccinated some of its citizens with Russia’s Sputnik V and Chinese vaccines, citing the need for a broader range than the EMA was approving. Other nations are moving to follow suit, albeit slowly.
But the panicked responses to the blood clot concerns, despite the recommendations from the EMA to continue administering AstraZeneca doses, are a reminder that the E.U. is not a technocratic behemoth. It is made up of individual national states that will act their own way when they feel the need.
For now, that might be a uniquely European problem. Outside of Europe, many countries are still eagerly seeking to administer the AstraZeneca jab.
“There are people who have concerns,” Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said Tuesday after he received the first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine. “But we must believe doctors, believe in our medical professionals.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/03/18/europe-astrazeneca-vaccine-response-analysis/


#64
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 22.03.2021
Заглавие: Hungary has approved more coronavirus vaccines than any other country as it faces a brutal third wave


By Adam Taylor
March 22, 2021 at 1:41 p.m. EDT
Hungarian officials announced Monday that they had issued emergency approval for China’s CanSino Biologics coronavirus vaccine and for Covishield, an Indian-made version of the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca, bringing the total number of approved coronavirus vaccines in the country to seven.
At an online news conference Monday, Surgeon General Cecilia Muller said the country needed vaccines, pointing to a third surge of coronavirus cases and an infection rate among the worst in the world.
“We are in a race against time,” Muller said, adding that vaccines were the “only way out of the epidemic” and that Hungary would continue to source vaccines from all over the globe.
Muller said both newly approved vaccines would be available in Hungary in the near future. If they receive approval for mass use by the National Health Center, Hungary will have seven sources from which to draw in practice.
According to the Covid19 Vaccine Tracker, a project by researchers from Canada’s McGill University, Hungary has approved more vaccines than any other nation. The United States has authorized three vaccines for emergency use, while the European Union regulator, the European Medicines Agency, has approved four.
Catch up on the most important developments in the pandemic with our coronavirus newsletter. All stories in it are free to access.
Hungary had broken with its E.U. peers to approve Chinese and Russian vaccines, including not only China’s CanSino vaccine but also Sinopharm’s, also from China, and the Moscow-backed Sputnik V.
Convidecia, the vaccine produced by CanSino, has been approved in China, Mexico and Pakistan. Covishield is a version of the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, produced by India’s Serum Institute. More than 20 countries have approved its use, and it has the backing of the World Health Organization and the African Union.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, facing reelection next year, has made a vaccination drive one of the key elements of his pandemic response. On Feb. 28, he posted a photograph of himself receiving the Sinopharm vaccine on his Facebook page with the message, “I am vaccinated.”
On Friday, Orban announced Hungary had given out more than 1.5 million vaccine doses among the country’s population of 9.8 million. Of the large countries in Europe, it is second only to Britain in vaccinations administered per capita.
But the coronavirus continues to hit the country hard, with 81 cases per 100,000 residents, according to a seven-day rolling average tracked by The Washington Post, and a death rate of 1.92 per 100,000 — the second highest in the world, behind the Czech Republic.
Orban has said he wants to lift strict shutdown measures once the country has delivered 2.5 million doses, telling public radio on Friday that there was a “good chance” Hungary could have a “free summer.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/03/22/hungary-vaccine-approval/


#65
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 22.03.2021
Заглавие: Third dose of Sinopharm coronavirus vaccine needed for some in UAE after low immune response


By Paul Schemm
March 22, 2021 at 5:42 a.m. EDT
DUBAI — A "very small number" of people in the United Arab Emirates are being invited to receive a third shot of the Sinopharm coronavirus vaccine after antibody tests indicated they did not have a sufficient immune response following two doses of the Chinese-made vaccine, its distributor confirmed Sunday.
There have also been reports out of China of people being initially unresponsive to the vaccine and requiring additional doses.
Walid Zaher, the chief researcher for G42 Healthcare, which distributes the Sinopharm vaccine in the UAE, told Dubai Eye radio that a study was underway to give some people third doses.
“When some people are found to be not really responsive to the vaccines, which is expected with all vaccines, there was an initiative to approach these people and give them a third shot of the Sinopharm vaccine, which has shown, within the context of the study, to boost their immunity,” he said.
Zaher said anyone with low levels of antibodies after a test could ask their doctor to contact health authorities and an appointment would be made for them to have another dose, but generally it’s the officials that approach the person.
He likened the third shot to a flu booster shot and said the amount of people who need it is a “very small number.” The need for a third shot was first mentioned March 10 to the National newspaper by the spokeswoman for the country’s health sector, Farida al-Hosani.
Squeezed out of the race for Western vaccines, developing countries turn to China
Doctors told the Wall Street Journal there were cases of people with little or no antibody response after two doses of Sinopharm.
The revelations could raise doubts about the effectiveness of the vaccine, which is being widely used around the world as countries scramble to inoculate their populations. Many of the more effective Western-made vaccines have been snapped up by wealthier nations.
The Sinopharm vaccine has a self-reported efficacy rate of 79 percent, which global health experts say is more than adequate, but its data has not been publicly released. In addition to the UAE, the vaccine has been purchased by countries such as Egypt, Cambodia, Senegal and Peru.
In China, over the weekend, medical authorities also announced that a clinical pathologist had become infected with the coronavirus despite being vaccinated weeks earlier. They did not specify which vaccine she had used, but her facility is known to administer the Sinopharm one.
“Perhaps she needs to get a third shot as the two doses of inactivated vaccine had failed to create enough antibodies in her,” Gao Fu, director of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, told state broadcaster China Central Television on Saturday. “Or she is one of the few who happen to be unresponsive to the vaccine.”
The UAE has distinguished itself with an aggressive vaccination program that initially used Sinopharm, which conducted Phase 3 trials in the country, and was later expanded to include Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca and Russia’s Sputnik V.
Nearly 73 percent of the elderly population and 56 percent of all adults have received at least one vaccine dose, authorities said Saturday.
As of Sunday, everyone in the country is eligible for a vaccine, authorities said, after restricting injections for the past six weeks to those with special needs.
The UAE has the second-highest national vaccination rate in the region after Israel, with more than 7 million doses given to a population of 9 million. The vaccine is free to all citizens and residents.
The UAE saw an explosion of new coronavirus infections in January after tourists from all over the world flocked to Dubai, which had marketed itself as a restriction-free holiday destination.
The number of new daily cases quadrupled to nearly 4,000 in January and only now has dropped down to about 2,000 new cases a day.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/middle_east/uae-sinopharm-third-dose/2021/03/21/588fcf0a-8a26-11eb-a33e-da28941cb9ac_story.html


#66
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 24.03.2021
Заглавие: Biden’s vaccination success story is about to run into a world of pressure


The administration has prioritized vaccinating Americans, but when will the U.S. help poorer countries?
 Image without a caption 

By Peter W. Stevenson
Senior producer
March 24, 2021 at 2:56 p.m. EDT
While President Biden is lauding his administration’s efforts to speed up vaccine rollout in the United States after hitting the 100-million-dose goal after 58 days in office, the global politics of vaccine distribution are becoming more complicated, and heated. When you look at the numbers, it’s not hard to see why Biden’s success story could run up against a wall of global political pressure to share doses.
While it’s been good domestic politics for Biden to prioritize American citizens, it’s also obvious the United States has ordered far more vaccine doses than it will ultimately need. The U.S. government made agreements to purchase:
About 267 million U.S. adults are currently eligible. Biden has said any American who wants a vaccine should be able to sign up for one by May 1. And at a certain point in the not-too-distant future, the focus will change from getting every American who wants a shot access to one, to convincing skeptical Americans to get vaccinated. That will be a slower process, so it’s not like suddenly the United States will stop needing vaccines.
How and when Biden chooses to distribute vaccine doses outside the country could impact both the global standing of the United States (especially as China and Russia are providing vaccines to developing countries), and the health and lives of hundreds of millions of people.
A big question will be which countries receive deliveries of doses first from multinational corporations that operate in multiple countries, or sometimes multiple continents. There’s a widening gap between vaccine distribution efforts in wealthy nations, particularly the United States and the United Kingdom, and developing nations. The head of the World Health Organization warned in January of the potential of a “catastrophic moral failure” if young, healthy people in rich nations are vaccinated before older or otherwise at-risk people in poorer countries.
The AstraZeneca vaccine is perhaps the biggest point of contention in the Western world’s vaccination efforts. The United States has 7 million “releaseable” doses and tens of millions more sitting in manufacturing facilities, but it hasn’t been approved for emergency use by the FDA yet.
Europe is already fighting over its own AstraZeneca doses, and the European Union is considering restricting vaccine exports. The E.U. and the U.K. both believe they’re due more doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, and the E.U. commission has accused AstraZeneca of failing to live up to its commitments. The intricacies of the manufacturing process aren’t making it any easier, especially with England having departed the E.U. But in the United States, where the same vaccine has not yet been approved, tens of millions of doses sit in manufacturing plants, not on their way to people’s arms.
Not that those doses would necessarily go to Europe — but with many more doses purchased than the United States will ultimately require, the Biden administration has a chance to help vaccinate countries that have far fewer doses purchased, or perhaps can’t afford the prices wealthy countries are paying for shots.
Biden doesn’t seem to want to release any of the vaccines already approved for use in the United States. At least 83.9 million people have received one or both vaccine doses in the United States so far, from the three approved vaccines. And while Biden insists he will share surplus shots with the rest of the world, his definition of “surplus” seems to be unclear.
 “We need maximum flexibility. There is always a chance we will encounter unexpected challenges or there will be a new need for a vaccination effort,” Biden said earlier in March.
Pressure on the Biden administration has recently started to increase as America’s closest neighbors ask for help. White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters the United States will loan 2.5 million doses to Mexico and 1.5 million to Canada. Details of the plan haven’t been finalized, but both countries will be expected to repay the United States either with future doses, or by purchasing them.
But that’s just a start, and it sits against a backdrop of concerns about vaccine diplomacy. Russia and China have been full speed ahead on trying to provide developing countries with their vaccines. That positions both countries to possibly expand their political and economic influences.
Not that it’s all going according to plan; The Washington Post’s Eva Dou and Shibani Mahtani reported Tuesday that a delivery of China’s Sinovac vaccine that arrived in Singapore last month is sitting unused, while the country starts vaccinating citizens with Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna shots. That’s because China has been accused of a lack of transparency in its clinical trials; countries appear not to trust them, as data from clinical trials last year still hasn’t been released. There are real questions about its effectiveness.
But other countries are moving ahead with it, including Brazil and the Philippines. More than 60 countries have approved at least one of China’s vaccines.
Russia, meanwhile, has been distributing its Sputnik V vaccine. An anchor on Russia’s state television channel called it “the best in the world” in February, part of a large-scale public relations effort the country seems to be putting on. Russia has signed contracts for hundreds of millions of Sputnik V doses, though there are questions about whether those doses can actually be delivered on any kind of realistic timeline.
But Russia and China at least have the appearance of working with the rest of the world, while the United States has been more isolationist. Biden will have to make a choice at some point about when to start releasing more doses to the rest of the world, especially as the number of unvaccinated Americans who actually want to be vaccinated dwindles.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/03/24/bidens-vaccination-success-story-is-about-run-into-world-pressure/


#67
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 24.03.2021
Заглавие: 48 Putin’s vaccine puzzle: Why the secrecy over his jab?


By Isabelle Khurshudyan
March 24, 2021 at 8:24 a.m. EDT
MOSCOW — Vladimir Putin isn't exactly camera shy.
The Russian president has been photographed shirtless, atop a horse and while fishing. He has displayed his sporty side, from hockey to judo. And there is Putin the animal lover, posing with tigers, pups and a koala.
But one picture Putin refused to take? That of him getting vaccinated.
The Kremlin announced that the 68-year-old Putin received the first dose of one of the country’s three domestically made coronavirus vaccines Tuesday. It was an opportunity to try to boost Russians’ low trust in immunization. A poll from the independent Levada Center last month found that 62 percent were not willing to receive the Sputnik V vaccine, the first Russian-made coronavirus vaccine offered to the public.
Russia expected a surge for its Sputnik V vaccine. But many skeptics still stayed away.
Russian President Vladimir Putin and defense minister Sergei Shoigu drove a cross-country vehicle and took a stroll in the Siberian mountains on March 21. (Reuters)
But the secretive handling of Putin’s vaccination — including not revealing which of the three vaccines he received and not releasing photos or video of him getting the jab — may have further undermined Russia’s lagging mass-vaccination campaign.
When asked why Putin wouldn’t get vaccinated on camera, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said cryptically: “He doesn’t like that.” Peskov didn’t elaborate. Later, Peskov released a statement noting that Putin was feeling well and would have “a full workday” on Wednesday.
Journalist Andrey Zakharov cracked on Twitter that Putin didn’t actually get vaccinated. “It was sugar in there,” he said. Opposition politician Dmitry Gudkov wrote on Facebook, “They say that there was a vaccination in the bunker today” — riffing off a quip by jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny that Putin was holed up like a “grandpa in a bunker” during the pandemic.
“But,” Gudkov continued, “their promises sound like a joke: in total secrecy, far from the cameras, won’t say which vaccine.”
Other world leaders were quicker to get vaccinated and much more public about it, rolling up their sleeves during live broadcasts to help reassure the public about vaccines’ safety. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky tweeted a photo of himself shirtless, being injected with the first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine. (President Donald Trump received a vaccine in January before leaving office without making the news public at the time, an adviser said earlier this month.)
Putin’s behind-the-scenes approach has left many Russians stumped. Earlier this year, state media released video of Putin in blue swim trunks, submerging himself in icy water for the Russian Orthodox Epiphany tradition. Even Putin’s excursions are carefully staged for public consumption.
Over the weekend, photos and videos of Putin behind the wheel of a camouflage all-terrain vehicle donning a caramel sheepskin suit in the Siberian forest made the rounds on social media.
The Putin-as-outdoorsman pictures feed a macho brand that has been two decades in the making. When it comes to the pandemic, Putin has told Russians to abide by preventive measures and get vaccinated. But he hasn’t backed it up with public displays.
Putin has never been shown wearing a face mask. (He did once visit a Moscow coronavirus hospital in a full Hazmat suit, delighting Russia’s meme-loving Internet community.) The Kremlin has been sensitive to reports of Putin sealed off from possible infection “in a bunker.”
What to know about Navalny’s protest movement in Russia — and why it unnerves Putin
Levada’s February polling found that 56 percent of respondents said they didn’t fear contracting the coronavirus. Outside of the restrictions on international travel, very few measures related to the coronavirus persist, and the country’s mask mandate is loosely enforced.
Lev Gudkov, Levada’s director, said people’s willingness to get vaccinated has dropped eight points in the past three months.
“In the growing reluctance to vaccinate, there is a general distrust of the government, especially intensified in times of propaganda campaigns such as this one,” Gudkov said, adding that Putin’s long wait to get vaccinated, as well as the sparse details, won’t help to encourage people.
This isn’t the first time that the Russian government’s attempts to promote vaccination may have backfired. Putin declared victory in the global vaccine race in August, announcing that Sputnik V would be the world’s first registered vaccine despite incomplete trial data.
The hasty rollout was widely criticized internationally, and created skeptics at home. The hesitancy remained even after the British medical journal the Lancet published a study in February showing Sputnik V with an efficacy rate of 91.6 percent after more trial data. Putin said Monday that 6.3 million people in Russia have received at least the first of one of the country’s vaccines.
Aside from Sputnik V, Russia has registered two others — one from the Vector lab in Siberia and another from Moscow’s Chumakov Center — although there is little data published about their efficacy.
As to why the Kremlin won’t say which of the three vaccines Putin picked, spokesman Peskov said that was a deliberate decision because “all three Russian vaccines are absolutely reliable.”
Even Peskov doesn’t know which one Putin received.
“It is known only to him and the doctor who administered the shot,” Peskov said Wednesday.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/putin-vaccine-secret-sputnik/2021/03/24/7a57a852-8bd3-11eb-a33e-da28941cb9ac_story.html


#68
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 28.03.2021
Заглавие: Russia’s Putin pumps up the swagger in swipes at Biden


By Robyn Dixon
March 28, 2021 at 5:00 a.m. EDT
MOSCOW — The most cutting blow lately against Russian President Vladimir Putin was not President Biden's recent "killer" epithet but the taunt from jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny calling him "grandpa in his bunker."
Shut off from the public and surrounded by security services, Putin has been largely holed up in his country retreat, protected by a special disinfection chamber for visitors. Navalny’s repeated use of the barb stung because it flipped Putin’s image: no longer a Russian bear but a cowering senior.
Cue a state propaganda blitz with 68-year-old Putin portrayed as a dynamic leader with years ahead of him and 78-year-old Biden as a doddering has-been.
Parliament member Pyotr Tolstoy said Biden had “political dementia.” State TV anchor Dmitry Kiselyov called Biden “the American patient,” noting that “at some point you have to face up to the inevitable” of age catching up. Kiselyov gleefully aired footage this month of Biden stumbling on the steps to Air Force One with the on-screen banner “Gone With the Wind.”
Biden triggered a clamor of official outrage in Russia after he agreed in a March 17 ABC News interview that Putin was “a killer.” But some Russian analysts argued that Biden had given Putin exactly what he needed, with his United Russia party sinking in popularity and elections ahead this fall.
Putin responds to Biden comment that he’s a killer: ‘I know you are, but what am I?’
Biden made Putin seem powerful, facing down an external enemy, instead of trying to cocoon himself from the pandemic. (Putin received his first coronavirus vaccine dose Tuesday, the Kremlin said.)
 “In terms of domestic politics, [Biden’s comment] helped Putin, because he was running out of topics,” said political analyst Konstantin Gaaze of the Carnegie Moscow Center. “Anti-Americanism is something that can be heated up. The basic mode is anti-Western, and it’s not the first time, or last time, it is used.”
An editorial in the business paper Kommersant predicted that “thanks to Biden” Putin’s United Russia might win every seat in the lower house of parliament.
“Joe Biden seems to have launched a major theme for uniting society around Vladimir Putin ahead of the September Duma elections,” it said. “The timing of Biden’s help couldn’t have been better. The image of an enemy, exploited since 2014, had begun to fade.”
Putin’s vaccine puzzle: Why the secrecy over his jab?
Putin, who has never debated a domestic political opponent in his life, challenged Biden to a live debate March 18 (as if live debates between world leaders are a thing). But then Putin headed off to the Siberian taiga for the weekend as he begins to clamber out of his reclusion.
The Kremlin is highly sensitive about how Putin looks. It fiercely denied a December report by Russian investigative outlet Proyekt that the president was actually living in Sochi on the Black Sea and had a replica of his Novo-Ogaryovo office outside Moscow built in his Sochi residence to hide that fact. Proyekt relied on flight records and Kremlin sources.
In January, Putin was put on the defensive by Navalny’s bombshell YouTube video of a vast palace on the Black Sea titled “Putin’s Palace: History of the World’s Largest Bribe,” viewed more than 115 million times. The Kremlin denied the palace was built for Putin, and the president’s old friend and judo partner, billionaire Arkady Rotenberg, later claimed ownership.
Meanwhile, Russia was hit with new sanctions from the United States and the European Union over the Russian authorities’ poisoning and subsequent detention of Navalny, and additional sanctions are possible. Russia denies any role in the poisoning.
Navalny’s jailing in January on his return to Russia — and a raft of draconian laws to crush dissent — sparked protests in more than 100 Russian cities and ignited anger among young Russians, many of whom see Putin as staid, repressive and distinctly uncool.
But Putin has recently burst back into the public eye. He drew a packed, cheering crowd to Moscow’s Luzhniki Stadium to mark the anniversary of Russia’s 2014 annexation of Crimea from Ukraine.
Why Russia is tightening its grip on social media
Putin then took Kremlin pool journalists to Tuva in Siberia, where he drove through a snowy forest in a hulking all-terrain vehicle and sipped tea at a rustic outdoor table. The event was planned well before Biden’s “killer” comment, but it delivered Putin the chance to pose as a nature-loving “muzhik,” or real man.
Putin on Thursday promised a slew of new trips, following his recent secretive vaccination.
“He was telling people he is in good health and he’s still close to Mother Nature. There was a strong message to this electorate that he’s in the taiga doing manly things,” Gaaze said.
In Siberia, Putin wore a quaint sheepskin jacket and pants, as did Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu. Headlines in pro-Kremlin media were even more over-the-top than usual: “The rarest shots! The Russian president has never been seen like this!” one outlet gushed. One image showed him jumping out of the driver’s seat.
“Just don’t show this to Biden,” tweeted Kremlin pool journalist Dmitry Smirnov.
Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, and Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu have a meal and drinks. (Alexei Druzhinin/Kremlin/AP)
Independent pollster the Levada Center reported this month that support for Putin’s party dropped to an eight-year low, with just 27 percent willing to vote for it if elections were to be held March 14.
Opposition to Putin staying in power beyond 2024, when his current term expires, reached an all-time high of 41 percent in a February Levada poll, compared with 48 percent who would like him to stay in power.
In a meeting last month with newspaper editors, Putin spelled out his ideology, boasting of Russia’s patriotism and its unique “genetic code” that distinguishes it from the West.
Russia, he said, is a young, vital nation “on the move,” compared with other aging societies.
But Gaaze said this ideology has limited appeal and that Putin’s era of political invulnerability is showing signs of fatigue.
“He’s basically a Soviet man who cannot remake the Soviet Union, but he is trying his best to do so,” he said. “He thinks he is the only man up there who understands [ordinary Russians’] mind-set.”
For many people, Gaaze said, Putin’s talk of Russian dignity and complaints of Western insults to Russia’s Sputnik vaccine do not resonate deeply.
“It’s not the first or third or even the fifth thought of ordinary Russian citizens,” he said.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/russia-putin-biden-killer-navalny/2021/03/27/0c22f47e-8c0d-11eb-a33e-da28941cb9ac_story.html


#69
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 29.03.2021
Заглавие: Slovakia’s prime minister is the first world leader to step down over covid controversy


March 29, 2021 at 3:37 p.m. EDT
In late February, a Slovakian military jet secretly took off for Moscow in the dead of night. When it returned to the eastern city of Kosice the next day, Slovakian Prime Minister Igor Matovic was there to meet it on the tarmac, announcing that the plane held the first shipment of an expected 2 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine.
Top government officials were stunned. Many said they had been given no advance warning that Matovic planned to buy the vaccine, which has not been cleared by European Union regulators.
Rather than being hailed as a hero, Matovic soon faced mounting pressure to resign amid a mass exodus of top government officials. Once considered a pandemic success story, Slovakia now has one of the highest coronavirus death rates in the Western world, and its fragile governing coalition has grown increasingly splintered over the past year. For some cabinet members, Matovic’s decision to unilaterally purchase millions of unapproved vaccine doses was the final straw.
On Sunday, Matovic announced that he would step down as prime minister and swap places with Finance Minister Eduard Heger, a member of his Ordinary People party, “in order for the coalition to continue.”
His resignation came after Slovakia’s health, economic, justice, education, and foreign affairs ministers stepped down from their posts, while multiple members of parliament walked away from Matovic’s center-right coalition. One of the MPs who quit, Tomas Valasek, expressed concerns that buying Russia’s vaccine meant “spitting in the face of our European partners,” according to news outlet SME.
For the past year, Slovakia has been governed by a four-way coalition, which frequently led to infighting. A party in the ruling coalition finalized a withdrawal from the government on Thursday, saying it would rejoin when the prime minister resigned, the Associated Press reported.
Slovak President Zuzana Caputova called for Matovic’s resignation last week, saying that it was “dangerous and reckless” for the country’s leadership to be mired in disputes at a time when the pandemic is overwhelming hospitals and health-care workers.
Slovakia has administered roughly 14,000 vaccine doses for every 100,000 people, on par with countries including Austria, Switzerland and Norway. Matovic had hoped to speed up the country’s rollout by purchasing Russia’s vaccine because the European Union does not ban member states from granting their own emergency authorization to drugs that have not yet been approved for use throughout the bloc.
But critics did not like the idea of Slovakia being the only E.U. nation besides Hungary to use the unapproved vaccine — or Matovic’s decision to act unilaterally. Frustration with the country’s handling of the pandemic was already building, prompted by what has been characterized as “disastrous” and “chaotic” management.
Last spring, Slovakia’s strict lockdown and border closures allowed the country to fare much better than many of its European neighbors. But as fatigue grew, restrictions were lifted, and the country now has reported more per capita deaths from the virus than the United States, Mexico or Brazil. Some experts say Matovic made a crucial misstep by insisting that regular nationwide testing could replace a hard lockdown when infections rose in the fall, ushering in a crisis that has overwhelmed the country’s limited health-care infrastructure.
Tougher new restrictions were announced in February, but health officials have complained that the regulations are rarely enforced and little attention is paid to whether infected people self-quarantine, according to German public broadcaster Deutsche Welle.
Matovic’s resignation means the governing coalition will remain intact, and it prevents the country from having to hold a snap election.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/03/29/slovakia-sputnik-matovic/
#70
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 03.04.2021
Заглавие: ‘They have another door’: Kenya’s vaccine rollout exposes rich-poor divide




By Rael Ombuor
 and 
Max Bearak
 
April 3, 2021 at 4:00 a.m. EDT
NGONG, Kenya — The two schoolteachers had heard the vaccine was first come, first served and had been waiting in front of the hospital since 5 a.m. They had been given numbers in line and let their thoughts drift ahead to the now-imminent moment for which they’d waited months.
Around noon, there was a sudden hubbub. A nurse appeared at the hospital’s gate and said the doses were finished. A crowd gathered. Some said they had seen the nurses sneaking in people through a back door, the teachers recalled later.
Amid the ensuing shouts from the crowd were denunciations of a more insidious plague here in Kenya: public services that work for those with connections and money and relegate everyone else to the back of the line.
“They have another door for their friends,” said Mary Njoroge, 58, one of the teachers. “Without a godfather to help you through this process, what are you supposed to do?”
Kenya procured around 1 million AstraZeneca vaccine doses through Covax, a World Health Organization-backed global vaccine distribution effort, and began administering them free of charge last month. The scene at Ngong Sub-County Hospital was a microcosm of how some people here have experienced the rollout: slowly and confusingly if you are poor, quickly and simply if you’re not.
Coronavirus vaccines are finally reaching poor countries, but some can’t cover the cost of administering them
Margaret Kamau, head of the vaccination unit at Ngong Sub-County Hospital, denied allegations that nurses allowed people to jump the line.
Juliana Nderitu, the other teacher, said she had tried booking appointments online at private hospitals, but websites were glitchy. Tuesday was the pair’s second day of waiting since dawn, putting their trust in what was meant to be a first come, first served system for eligible recipients, a group that now includes various essential workers and all adults over the age of 58.
“There was no proper planning when it came to this rollout, and that’s why you are seeing this type of confusion,” said Chibanzi Mwachonda, acting secretary general of the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union.
In a news conference Thursday, Kenyan Health Minister Mutahi Kagwe appealed for patience.
“We are happy that there is great demand for the vaccine from Kenyans,” Kagwe said. “Let us not panic or become anxious. The government will provide vaccines for all adults in Kenya in a phased approach.”
As of Thursday, Kenya has administered first doses to just over 160,000 of its 54 million people, a relatively slow rate compared to other countries. Second-dose appointments are being given for May and June.


The country’s health ministry says it aims to fully vaccinate half of the population by June 2022, relying primarily on Covax, although donations from wealthier countries are expected to pick up once their own vaccination campaigns slow down.
Late last month, amid a surge in case numbers and dwindling hospital space that centered on Nairobi, the capital, the government reimposed domestic movement restrictions and expanded the hours of a curfew that has been in place for more than a year. For five months last year, Kenya closed its borders, but for now, international travelers can still come and go.
Like in last year’s lockdown, however, the government has offered little support to the vast majority of Kenyans who work in the informal sector and whose ability to work is severely curtailed by the restrictions, hardening a belief among many that the government’s precautionary measures are mainly meant to protect the wealthy while leaving the poor even more vulnerable.
Police killed at least 20 Kenyans while enforcing coronavirus rules. Hopes for justice are fading.
An opaque rollout of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine on the private market in March, as well as news reports that Nairobi’s large United Nations staff contingent and diplomatic corps are being offered Covax vaccinations by the government, have raised questions about the government’s priorities involving whom to vaccinate first. (On Friday, Kagwe announced that Kenya would no longer allow companies to import, distribute or administer vaccine doses.)
Last week, in an apparent promotion, two of Kenya’s most well-known and media-savvy lawyers, each with around a million followers on Twitter, claimed to be the first and second people in the country to get the Russian vaccine, which was being sold for around $100 for both doses.
The vaccine, which is not approved by the WHO, was granted emergency-use authorization in Kenya, but health officials scrambled in recent days to explain how private medical care providers administering doses to prominent personalities fell under emergency provisions.
Those seeking free vaccinations in wealthier parts of Nairobi have also simply found it easier to stroll into a hospital and get a shot without waiting in line.
Joseph Mutisya, a physiotherapist, said he breezed through the process at Nairobi Hospital, the country’s largest private health facility. He made an appointment through the hospital’s website, and being familiar with computers was less deterred by the glitches it had.
“I came in with my booking message, I showed my doctor’s practice license to qualify, they gave me a number to wait, they called it, I registered my details, and I got the vaccine,” he said. “The whole process did not take more than 45 minutes.”
Less than half a mile away, at Mbagathi Hospital, a public institution that largely serves the sprawling slum of Kibera, hundreds of people clamored outside the gate, where confusion reigned.
A security guard at the hospital, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because she wasn’t authorized to speak to the media, said crowds gather each day by the time she reports for work before 6 a.m.
“It’s how early you wake up that determines if you get the vaccine,” she said. “Many have been turned back and told the vaccines are done for the day.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/04/03/kenya-vaccine-inequality/


#71
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 13.04.2021
Заглавие: Transcript: Coronavirus: Vaccines & Variants with Céline Gounder, MD & Julie Morita, MD
By Washington Post Live


April 13, 2021 at 2:05 p.m. EDT
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: Good morning, and welcome to Washington Post Live. I’m Paige Winfield Cunningham, a health policy reporter here at the Post and author of The Health 202 newsletter, and this morning, I’m delighted to welcome two medical experts here to be with us today. They are Dr. Julie Morita--and she’s the executive vice president of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation--and Dr. Céline Gounder, clinical assistant professor of medicine and infectious diseases at New York University and CEO of Just Human Productions. Both Dr. Morita and Dr. Gounder served on the Biden-Harris Transition COVID-19 Advisory Board.
Thank you both so much for joining us today.
DR. MORITA: Thanks for having us, Paige.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: So, let's start off talking about the breaking news this morning, of course, that the CDC is recommending a pause in the Johnson & Johnson vaccine with the news that six women have had incidents of blood clots after receiving the vaccine.
Dr. Gounder, how much cause for concern is this? Are the FDA and CDC making the right move there?
DR. GOUNDER: Paige, I think they are making the right move by putting a pause, evaluating the data, and figuring out where to move next. I think, big picture, the risk here is exceedingly low, on the order of one in a million. So that's a very low risk of blood clots.
I think where the focus is going to be is whether younger women, specifically, perhaps women who are taking birth control pills which can also increase the risk for blood clots, whether there might be specific guidance with respect to using the Johnson & Johnson vaccine in that population, and I think that remains to be seen.
I do think we're going to see the pause will be lifted, that we'll continue using the J&J vaccine, but I think it's really important for the public to see that we're taking the right steps, reviewing the data to figure out what is safe.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: Well, I want to talk about risk for a minute because, as you say, this is very rare. We don't even know that there is necessarily a connection between the vaccine and the blood clots, and to put this in context, around 7 million people have received the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. We're talking about roughly one event of blood clotting out of a million people.
Dr. Morita, how should people look at the risk here? Are there ways to sort of put this risk in context as people are thinking about whether to get the vaccine?
DR. MORITA: One of the things I would say is I think before we jump into that, I'd like to acknowledge the fact, the fact that we know this information is really important, that we have these systems that are in place to be able to monitor when vaccines are released to the public, and that we're able to detect when these rare or unusual side effects actually occur. So, we're in a good place because we actually have been able to detect that, and then to pause on the vaccine's rollout right now so that we can have the data and really understand what the risk looks like is really important.
So, an an emergency meeting of the ACIP tomorrow will help to shed some light on what needs to happen next, if it's ongoing study, or if the vaccines can actually be resumed. So, I think that it's really important to keep that in mind.
Before I continue, though, I do want to acknowledge the fact that the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, where I work, we actually are independently managed from J&J, but we do own stock in the company. And so, I just want people to know that as we continue this conversation.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: Well, right. Thank you for acknowledging that.
You know, the government, we know is bouncing two priorities here, right? It's being transparent about what we know about the vaccine, and then it's also trying to encourage and urge the public to get the vaccine, saying that we do know that they're safe.
Dr. Gounder, how should the government go about doing that in this particular situation where, on one hand, there are these incidents and they're trying to be transparent, on the other hand, we're in a midst of a vaccine effort and really trying to convince people to get the shots?
DR. GOUNDER: Yeah. You know, I think part of the challenge here is that we as people, as the average person, we're really bad at weighing risk and benefit.
To put some of this risk into context, so, again, the risk of these blood clots among people who got the J&J vaccine are about one in a million for all comers. If you took birth control pills, your risk of getting a blood clot is one in 3,000, and if you're hospitalized with COVID, your risk of a blood clot is one in five.
So, if you're comparing just the risk of getting a blood clot with vaccination versus the risk of getting a blood clot if you get COVID, there is a tremendous difference there.
I think the other thing is we're really bad at weighing risk when we're talking about old risk versus new risk. So new risk, for example, with a vaccine, a new vaccine, or a new risk--excuse me--old risk with something like driving to work or taking birth control, those may actually be riskier activities, but they're older risks that we've gotten used to living with. And so, we just don't think about them in the same way anymore.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: Well, that's an excellent point.
And, Dr. Gounder, what about the AstraZeneca vaccine? I wanted to ask you about that because, of course, this has been a concern also in some countries in Europe, and we've seen some pausing of the vaccines there. I know this is leading to questions about whether the U.S. is even going to use AstraZeneca's. What's your thought on that? Is that even necessary to go there, given we have these other vaccines? Do you anticipate that the U.S. will go ahead and approve AstraZeneca's and that will start being distributed it here?
DR. GOUNDER: Yeah. I think you have a couple different questions here, really, embedded in that. One is the AstraZeneca vaccine is an adenovirus vector vaccine like the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. We have now seen these very rare blood clots with low platelet counts with both vaccines, and so that is prompting questions as to whether there's something about that adenovirus vector that's actually leading to these clots here.
And this is important because there are other adenovirus vector vaccines out there. The Russian Sputnik vaccine also uses that technology. The Chinese vaccines use this technology. So, this has tremendous implications for the world's supply of vaccines.
In the U.S., honestly, between the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, we have plenty of vaccine supply to vaccinate Americans. We don't even need the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, much less the AstraZeneca vaccine.
But I do think it is important that the FDA review the Johnson & Johnson data, make recommendations on that. It is important to have that tool, both for the U.S. population, perhaps people who only want one dose or who are harder to reach, and the Johnson & Johnson vaccine does have some pros there. And it's important for the FDA to review the AstraZeneca vaccine before we provide that vaccine to the rest of the world, before we loan or donate or however we arrange to provide that supply. But I think it's important that we be able to say, "Look, we're not just giving you faulty goods. We're truly giving you something that we have reviewed and deemed safe and effective."
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: Let's talk about some good news for a minute. We're seeing some great numbers in terms of the vaccination effort, more than, I think, around 120 million Americans have gotten one shot, around 70 million fully vaccinated.
Dr. Morita, what grade would you give the vaccination effort at this point?
DR. MORITA: Let's see. That's a great question. I think that we're improving. So, I guess maybe I'd say that we're at a B+ right now, that we have room to improve, but we're definitely better than we were earlier at the start of the vaccination effort.
One of the things I'm really pleased to see is that the total number of the vaccines are going up, but in addition to that, there's increasing focus on reaching the communities that have been hit hardest by the pandemic. So, we know that there's been a disproportionate impact of serious disease, hospitalization, and death among our communities of color and our low-income communities, and there's been a very concerted effort to make sure the vaccines are getting into those communities and being more accessible to them. And there's billions of dollars that have been released and--over $300 million that have been released to actually work with communities to address these, make sure the vaccine is as accessible as possible.
I'm also pleased to see that the numbers of people who are interested in getting vaccinated and who have more trust and confidence in the vaccine is increasing.
So where last year we were seeing low numbers, low percentages of people that were actually interested in getting a vaccine, we're now seeing those numbers actually increase, and so it's really just on the system itself to be made so easy that people can get the vaccines without any barriers.
So, overall, I'd say I'd give the vaccine effort a B+ right now, but I know that there's room for improvement because we still have some communities that aren't getting the vaccine. And there are still some communities that have questions about the vaccine as well.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: Dr. Morita, are you concerned that this news about Johnson & Johnson might start undermining this effort? I know that people often just see a headline, they see the word "blood clot," and Johnson & Johnson put those things together without really looking into it.
DR. MORITA: I think it's a good--it's important to highlight the fact, the fact that we know this information is really important and critical, that we're being transparent, that there is a system in place to detect adverse events, and there's also a strong system to evaluate what do these adverse events mean. Are they cause and effect? Do we need to halt the program itself? We're just pausing it right now so we can actually collect additional information and really understand what is happening, and that should be reassuring to the public.
The federal government has now asked the vaccines to be paused in their programming. I suspect the states will also do the same and will stop administering the vaccine until we have additional information. That should be very reassuring to the public.
Millions and millions of doses have been administered of the Moderna and the Pfizer vaccines, and the ongoing safety monitoring has been happening as well. And there hasn't been any pause in those programs, and so I think it should be reassuring the public that we have these systems for monitoring. Nothing has been detected at this point for those vaccines, and they should feel confident getting those vaccines. And while we're figuring out what's happening with the J&J vaccines, they should be comfortable proceeding with those.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: Let's talk about the variants for a minute. Dr. Gounder, I want to get your thought on this, because I'm not sure we've had a lot of agreement among epidemiologists, public health experts, as to the level of concern. There were those saying the variants are really going to, you know, extend the length of this pandemic. Others were saying it's not that big of a deal. I know we're seeing an uptick in the UK variant in Michigan, but what's your level of concern, and which variants are you watching the most closely?
DR. GOUNDER: Yeah. I think it really does depend on which variant you're talking about.
The B117 variant, which was first detected in the United Kingdom, is now the dominant variant here in the United States. It appears to be what is fueling a surge in Michigan, now also in Minnesota, Illinois, as well as other parts of the country, and I think it really depends on how much vaccination those areas have managed to do before the B117 variant hit. And this is where we may have an advantage over countries like the UK, like some of the European countries that got hit with B117 earlier, before they had a chance to really roll out vaccines.
I think there's been some debate: Should we be surging vaccines applied to Michigan right now? The problem is it takes time before your immune system is--before you're fully immune after you receive a vaccine. It's not when the needle touches your arm that you're immune.
If you look at the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, those are two doses, and then you wait another 14 days after the second does before you're immune. With the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, it's 14 to 28 days after that does that you're fully immune. And so, even if we start vaccinating now, you're not going to see the impact of that vaccination until a month or more from now. So, we really need to focus on vaccinating ahead of the variants, not as they're hitting.
The two other variants that we're most concerned about are the B1351, which was detected first in South Africa, and the P1 variant which was first detected in Brazil, and those are concerning because there is a trend towards evading both natural infection--immunity from natural infection as well as immunity from vaccination. And so, if those variants continue to mutate, you could have full evasion of immunity from the vaccination. So, it's something that we're keeping a very close eye one.
One piece of good news on that front is, at least with the South African variant, it does not seem to be spreading as efficiently in Europe, for example, and it really does seem to be that if you're thinking about this as a race between variants, the B117 UK variant seems to be winning that face.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: So, on the topic of Michigan, we know that Michigan's governor has asked for extra vaccine doses. This week, the Biden administration has said, "No. You should shut down instead," and I'd like to hear from both of you whether you think that's been the right decision or whether the administration should consider sending extra vaccines there. Maybe Dr. Gounder first and then Dr. Morita.
DR. GOUNDER: Yeah. I agree with the administration's policy on this because, again, it takes time before vaccination takes effect, and if you're really thinking about this big picture, we should be vaccinating perhaps more heavily in the places that will surge next. It's just that we don't really know where those places are going to be.
Are those going to be the states that were hit hard over the summer, last summer? We don't know. Is this something that's seasonal and geographic, or what is driving certain surges in certain places at any one point in time? So, it's really not going to help.
I think one of the things that people compare this to wrongly is smallpox vaccination, where we did what we call "ring vaccination." You have a case, and then you vaccinate everybody around that case to protect from spread. Smallpox is a very different virus. The incubation period, the average incubation period for smallpox is 10 to 14 days, and remember, it takes your immune system about 14 days to gear up.
So, even if you are vaccinated after exposure with smallpox, it could still be protective. COVID is a very different virus. The average incubation period of SARS-CoV-2 is four to five days. So, if you vaccinate somebody around the time of their exposure, they're going to develop a disease before the vaccine takes effect.
The other piece of this is that Michigan has plenty of supply. There are many areas in Michigan where vaccine appointments are going unfilled. So that really is vaccine that could be reallocated based on Zip code within the state.
The federal government has already been sending additional help, going back to February, a couple hundred federal staffers to help with distribution and the logistics of administration. They're sending more because this really is about getting shots in arms, not whether there are enough shots to be had.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: And, Dr. Morita, what would your response be? Is the Biden administration making the right move here?
DR. MORITA: I mean, it takes time to actually take effect and to actually start preventing disease, and so, at this point, when they're seeing high levels of disease activity in places like Michigan and Minnesota, the vaccination is important to continue to do. But these other measures that we also know are very effective--over the past year, we've learned that when we increase social distancing, when we limit crowds from gathering, when we encourage people to wear masks and to wash their hands carefully, those kinds of activities can make a big difference in terms of disease transmission. And so those are the kinds of things that we need to be doing in any jurisdiction that has high levels of disease activity, and we need to be making sure the vaccines are getting out to the people and into arms.
And they have to actually get into the communities that actually have been hardest hit as well. So, while Céline pointed out that there is an abundant vaccine or there is--and I shouldn't say abundant vaccine, but there is a vaccine available, we have to make sure that it's getting into the right communities and the supports are in place to help people navigate the systems, because the systems have been complicated. And not everyone has easy access to them.
So, I think that these measures to protect the public that require social distancing, the mask wearing, the hand washing, those kinds of things are critical, are really essential while the vaccines are getting administered as well.
DR. GOUNDER: Paige, if I may, I would compare this--you know, I think about this a bit like a car, where you have a brake pedal, which is essentially like you're masking, you're social distancing, the good ventilation, all of that, and then you have the parking brake, which is like your vaccination. If you're speeding down a highway and you want to stop right away, you use the brake pedal, not the parking brake. The parking brake will keep you stopped once you're stopped.
So, similarly, in this situation, when you have a big surge, you need that brake pedal. You need the masking, the social distancing, and all of the rest of those mitigation measures.
Once you have suppressed the transmission, once you're out of a surge, the vaccine is like a parking brake, where it really will help prevent another surge from happening.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: We talked about Michigan. Let's talk about Texas for a minute, and this is a little bit counterintuitive. As you know, when Texas lifted the mask mandate and some other measures over a month ago, there were a lot of dire predictions. We haven't seen those come to fruition. Texas still has one of the lowest rates of new cases per capita and far lower than Michigan which had kept many of its measures in place.
Dr. Morita, what do you make of that? Why are we seeing such good results in Texas so far?
DR. MORITA: I think there's a lot of variables to consider in terms of disease transmission, and in the living circumstances are different in Michigan than they are in Texas. The weather conditions are different, and so people may be able to be outside more than they are indoor in a Midwestern community. So those kinds of factors can play, can play out as well and affect disease transmission.
So, I think it's hard to know exactly what it is. Also, the other factor to consider is also the variants. Are the variants as common in Texas as they are in Michigan? And so, I think those factors all play into how much disease is actually spreading.
The other consideration is vaccine coverage levels and how high are the vaccine coverage levels. So multiple factors are needed to be taken into consideration when we think about how disease is spreading.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: I want to ask both of you something that I'm just curious about. Have you been able to receive the vaccine, and how were you making decisions in your own life? What kind of activities are you personally choosing to participate in or not participate in now compared to, say, last summer when we didn't have the vaccines?
Dr. Gounder, let's hear from you first.
DR. GOUNDER: Well, I am a provider. I'm both an internist as well as infectious disease specialist. I'm attending on the wards at Bellevue right now, which is why I have scrubs on, and so I have been taking care of patients all throughout the pandemic and as a front-line provider was eligible in the very beginning to get vaccinated. So, I got my first dose of Pfizer back in December, my second dose in January. I had no side effects from that.
But that said, other people in my life have not been able to get vaccinated. My husband only got his first dose of vaccine this past week here in New York City, and so we really have continued to follow all of the mitigation measures. We have gone out to eat but only outdoors, and really, otherwise that's the only change in behavior so far.
I continue to mask. At our hospital right now, we are required to wear an N95 mask at all times with all patient interactions. So, I just throw on that N95 first thing when I get to work in the morning, switching out just a regular surgical mask, and I wear that straight through until I leave at the end of the day.
So, I think one misunderstanding people have is they think of the vaccine in terms of only personal protection. Vaccines work best at a population level, and so until most people who want to get vaccinated can get vaccinated, there is still going to be significant risk. You're going to have the virus circulating in the community. And even with the best vaccines, they're not 100 percent effective. So, if you think about it--and these are just random numbers, really just for illustration. If you start with a risk of, say, a thousand and you cut that risk by 95 percent, that's still a significant risk versus starting with perhaps a risk of 10 and cutting that by 95 percent.
And we're still at a very high risk, a very high level of transmission in the community, where vaccines are very protective at an individual level, but they're not perfect.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: And, Dr. Morita, what about you?
DR. MORITA: So, I am a pediatrician, but I'm not clinically active like Céline is, and so I opted to wait to get vaccinated because I didn't feel like my risk was that high. And I'm not interacting with patients. So, I waited until just last month to get vaccinated. I got my first dose because I wanted to volunteer to vaccinate within the city of Chicago. That's where I'm living right now, and so I just completed my series a week and a half ago.
My husband is a health care provider who is clinically active. So, he received his vaccine earlier on, and so we've been waiting actually until we are both fully vaccinated and two weeks out to actually enter my parents' home. So, my parents live about two blocks away from me, and my dad is 91 and my mom is 87. And we haven't been in the building there or in the same space as them, inside, for many, many months. We've been standing outside on their front porch talking with them, and so we're looking forward to this weekend where we actually can go into their house and have a meal together and talk, because they are fully vaccinated and we are fully vaccinated.
When my husband and I are outside, we are wearing our mask. We continue to wear our mask. We haven't gone into restaurants to eat indoors, and we probably won't for a long time. I think I feel much more comfortable avoiding indoor mask gatherings or large groups, and even with restaurants that are at 50 percent or 25 percent capacity, it still makes me a little bit uncomfortable.
So, we really opted to maintain our social distancing, continue to wear our masks, handwash very regularly, and to really limit our social interactions at this point.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: So, as you know, there's, of course, been a lot of opposition to mask wearing, social distancing, and that's been talked a lot about, but let's talk about the flip side of it. Are there any ways in which people have overreacted to the threat of the virus?
We've been talking about risk, and I'm thinking now we're learning about, for example, ways the virus doesn't spread. There's more and more research coming out showing that young children don't tend to spread it the way adults do, that it doesn't spread on surfaces the way that we thought previously, and are there any ways, I guess, in which we sort of overreacted and sort of spawned unnecessary side effects? For example, I'm thinking of the CDC guidance that desks had to be six feet apart and now they've revised it down to three feet, but that original guidance was why many schools didn't have in-person learning for kids throughout the year.
Dr. Gounder, what do you think about that?
DR. GOUNDER: This really comes down to what we've learned about how the virus has transmitted over the past year. In the beginning, we thought this was largely through contact, direct contact with perhaps hands or surfaces as well as droplets, and so, as a result, we were recommending wash your hands, clean these surfaces, stay six feet apart, because droplets do fall to the ground within about a six-foot radius.
What we have learned over the past year, though, is that aerosols, which are much smaller than droplets, they float in the air and can travel longer distances. Those aerosols are probably much more significant in terms of transmission of COVID, and so that does have implications for what works best to prevent transmission. So, it's really about masks, ventilation, and the density of people in a space as opposed to the actual distance between them.
So, for example, for the school setting, that means, yes, you can have kids closer together. They don't have to be six feet apart as long as you have the masking, good ventilation, which could, in some cases, just be opening a window, and you don't need to do some of these other things like all of this intense disinfection of surfaces. That's not as important.
It's never a bad idea to wash your hands. I think that's a really good thing to do, no matter what, but it's probably not as important for transmission of COVID as we might initially have thought it was.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: Dr. Gounder, I want to also ask you about the vaccine that's being used in China right now. The head of China's CDC has conceded that the efficacy of the vaccine is not high, yet we know that China is sending a lot of these doses to other poorer countries who may not have access to the vaccines that are available in the U.S. Does this concern you at all?
DR. GOUNDER: I am concerned. I don't think we should be sending inferior goods to the rest of the world, and so that does have me very concerned.
That said, even a 50 percent reduction in transmission or in risk is significant. So, I don't think these vaccines are useless, but I really would like to see safe and effective vaccines distributed for everyone across the world.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: Well, we're almost out of time, but, Dr. Morita, I want to ask you just one more question. As we're reflecting on the past year of pandemic, what are the one or two lessons that we've learned about our public health infrastructure here in the U.S. and how we can be better prepared in the future?
DR. MORITA: I think we've seen this over the course of the decades that there basically is increasing public health support in terms of federal resources when there's a public health emergency, whether it's something like Ebola or Zika or H1N1 or now COVID. Surges of funding come to support public health infrastructure.
And then when the crisis subsides, the funding goes away, and then our infrastructure isn't maintained. And I think what happened here was clearly a reflection--our initial responses was clearly a reflection of poor data infrastructure, poor workforce infrastructure, and so we weren't able to mobilize as quickly as possible. So, we really need to sustain those levels of support.
The other key message that I would say that is really important to keep in mind is that what COVID has done is made clear the structural inequities, how they are related to poor health outcomes. So, the groups who have been disproportionately impacted by COVID really are disproportionately impacted because of the systems that we have in place that don't allow them to protect themselves, so people that don't have paid leave or people that are unable to work from home, people who don't have broadband internet access. These kinds of things are just essential for people to live healthy lives at baseline, and when a public health emergency emerges, that's when those populations actually suffer the most.
So, we really have to look at these root causes of poor health upstream and before the next crisis and take care of them. So, I'm hopeful that we'll actually be able to learn important lessons from what's happened now so that we're better prepared for the next public health emergency.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: Well, unfortunately, we're out of time, so we're going to have to leave things there. But thank you so much, Dr. Julie Morita and Dr. Céline Gounder, for joining me today. It's been a fascinating conversation.
DR. MORITA: Thanks, Paige.
DR. GOUNDER: Great to be here.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: Well, as always, thanks for joining us today for Washington Post Live. I'm Paige Winfield Cunningham.
[End recorded session]
https://www.washingtonpost.com/washington-post-live/2021/04/13/transcript-coronavirus-vaccines-variants-with-cline-gounder-md-julie-morita-md/


#72
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 16.04.2021
Заглавие: AstraZeneca is the ‘workhorse’ for vaccinating the world. Now, the world is uneasy over clot risks.


By Danielle Paquette, 
Emily Rauhala, 
Loveday Morris and Liz Sly
April 16, 2021 at 4:00 a.m. EDT
DAKAR, Senegal — She had seen the conspiracy theories on Facebook, the endless anti-vaccine videos. Aminata Gueye shrugged it all off as silly chatter and signed up for an AstraZeneca shot courtesy of a World Health Organization-backed vaccine push called Covax.
Then came some news on the radio in Dakar: Some European countries had suspended use of the vaccine after regulators found apparent links to rare, but potentially fatal, blood clots. Gueye never went to the clinic.
“I was impatient to get vaccinated,” said Gueye, 38. “Now I have doubts.”
Lingering hesitation about the two-dose AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine may shape the next phase of the effort to vaccinate the world.
The easy-to-store and affordable AstraZeneca shot, developed with the University of Oxford, is central to the WHO-led Covax initiative to distribute doses globally, particularly in developing countries left out of the global vaccine race.
Delays and questions about safety — especially the potential risk of blood clots for younger women — have brought new challenges to Covax just as the rollout was getting underway.
Some countries are now weighing safety information, looking for other vaccine options and trying to reassure weary publics — all at once. Covax may also struggle with the perception that it is relying on a vaccine that Europe and others have flagged for caution.
The U.S. decision to pause the use of Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose vaccine, also over a potential link to clots, could further raise alarm and undermine Covax, which plans to distribute the shot.
“AstraZeneca is the workhorse, the backbone of Covax,” said J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Global Health Policy Center at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “If people turn away from it, that’s horrible and very dangerous for the global plan.”
AstraZeneca, once touted as a pandemic slayer, faces challenges
“High-income countries,” including the United States, account for just 16 percent of global population but have locked up 53 percent of near-term vaccine supply, according to a team of researchers at Duke University’s Global Health Innovation Center.
The United States has fully vaccinated more than 25 percent of its total population. Covax aims to secure and distribute enough doses to vaccinate 20 percent of the populations of 92 participating countries by the end of the year.
AstraZeneca’s vaccine is expected to make up almost 50 percent of global vaccine supply in lower- to middle-income nations and a third of supply in low-income nations, according to research published last month by the Think Global Health program of the Council on Foreign Relations.
On Thursday, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken called on allies to pledge more money to the Covax program, saying an additional $2 billion could help it reach 30 percent of the targeted countries by the end of the year.
Global caution grows
The WHO, the European Medicines Agency and the African Union stress that the benefits of the AstraZeneca shot outweigh its risks.
But doubts linger.
Denmark announced Wednesday that it will permanently suspend the use of the vaccine over concern about safety risks.
Cameroon withdrew its approval of AstraZeneca’s vaccine in March — days before a shipment was set to arrive — saying it wanted to see more studies of the vaccine in light of the early European probes into blood clot links. Liberia delayed its inoculation campaign by three weeks for the same reason.
Officials in Ivory Coast have blamed a “systematic refusal of the vaccine” for its behind-schedule vaccination campaign and have voiced worry about doses expiring on shelves.
What you need to know about AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine
Since March 28, when Lebanon began administering the first 33,600 AstraZeneca doses supplied by Covax, around a third of those given appointments at the government’s largest hospital have not shown up, said Firas Abiad, the hospital’s chief administrator.
When staffers called people to ask why, they cited their mistrust of the AstraZeneca vaccine, he said.
Lebanese people wait to receive a vaccine dose in Beirut last month. (Diego Ibarra Sanchez/Getty Images)
The fact that the vaccine’s staunchest defender, Britain, has decided to offer a different shot to those under 30 is particularly worrying to some Covax participants, experts said. Many lower-income countries tend to have younger populations and few vaccine options.
Some nations that can afford it may turn to Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine. Others may opt to work with China, despite recent news that a top Chinese health official said the efficacy of Chinese vaccines is “not high.”
After hitting pause on AstraZeneca, Cameroon this week received its first doses of China’s Sinopharm vaccine.
“The AstraZeneca vaccine remains an important public health tool against the covid-19 pandemic, and is effective at preventing severe cases, hospitalization and death,” said a spokesperson for the Geneva-based group Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, which runs Covax alongside the WHO, and the Oslo-based Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations.
'Benefit of humanity'
Once seen as a top prospect in the vaccine race, the AstraZeneca vaccine’s development has been dogged by missteps: trial blunders, production delays and repeated public communication failures.
AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine plausibly linked to rare brain clots, European regulators say
The European Union’s medical regulator, the European Medicines Agency, said April 7 that the AstraZeneca vaccine appeared to be causing rare clotting incidents, putting the risk of complications at 1 in every 100,000 doses administered.
The main concern is a type of clot called cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, or CVST, which blocks blood being drained from the brain. But patients also have presented with a low platelet count that makes the clots complicated to treat and increases the bleeding risk.
Out of 62 cases of the brain clots and 24 cases of clots in veins in the abdomen included in the European Medicines Agency’s initial safety review, 18 were fatal.
Andrew Pollard, an Oxford University professor and co-developer of the AstraZeneca vaccine, said the fact that the rare blood clots have been picked up shows safety systems are working.
“Coronavirus continues to be a huge threat to people throughout the world,” he said. “And we continue with our mission to support global vaccination, not for profit, for the benefit of humanity.”
Some countries appear to be weighing their vaccine options.
In Lebanon, the World Bank is funding the purchase of 2.1 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine, which now accounts for the vast majority of doses administered. Lebanese business leaders, meanwhile, are stepping in to import Russian-made Sputnik vaccines.
Effectiveness of Chinese vaccines ‘not high,’ needs improvement, health official says
Beyond that, the country is expecting about 2 million AstraZeneca doses, a fifth of the required total for Lebanon to achieve herd immunity.
Any large-scale snub of the vaccine could have a major impact on the program’s success, said Abiad, the hospital administrator.
“If there’s a lot of hesitancy, we won’t be where we want to be, which is to get as many people as possible immunized,” he said.
'They wouldn't take one'
Many countries must tackle layers of skepticism about vaccines in general.
Lebanon’s economic collapse had already fueled existing mistrust of the government, compounding the impact of outlandish, baseless claims about mind control. A sectarian divide in Lebanon over which kind of vaccine to accept has also emerged.
In West Africa, hesitancy is partially fueled by history. Pfizer, for instance, triggered outrage and an enormous lawsuit after 11 children died in a 1996 drug trial in northern Nigeria — a collective memory that doctors say delayed polio eradication in the region after people rejected Western drugs.
A recent Afrobarometer poll of five West African nations — Benin, Liberia, Senegal, Niger and Togo — found that only 4 in 10 respondents said they would consider getting vaccinated against the coronavirus.
Countries like Cameroon, which suspended approval of AstraZeneca’s vaccine March 19, do not have many options.
“It’s a huge issue,” said Yap Boum, an epidemiologist in the central African country. “We don’t have access to Pfizer or Moderna.”
Still, he’d happily accept the AstraZeneca shot.
“The risk is so low,” Boum said. “But most of the people around me? They wouldn’t take one.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/astrazeneca-vaccine-covax-world-clots/2021/04/15/da05b424-9876-11eb-8f0a-3384cf4fb399_story.html


#73
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 25.04.2021
Заглавие: In the Venezuelan ‘Workers’ Paradise,’ very different pandemics for the haves and have-nots


By Ana Vanessa Herrero
and Anthony Faiola
April 25, 2021 at 5:00 a.m. EDT
CARACAS, Venezuela — Venezuela’s raging coronavirus outbreak had filled nearly every hospital bed in the capital, leaving the Fuentes family scrambling when three of its members came down with acute cases of covid-19 at virtually the same time.
Their solution: Build their own medical ward inside their four-bedroom home.
Across Latin America, the haves and the have-nots are living and dying in two radically different pandemics — a natural extension of the economic inequality lived daily by 652 million people from the Rio Grande to Tierra del Fuego. In one of the most unequal regions of the globe — and among the hardest hit by the coronavirus — perhaps no single country is witnessing a larger gap than the “Workers’ Paradise”: Nicolás Maduro’s Venezuela.
Maduro touts miracle cure to mask massive problem: Venezuela can’t (or won’t) get vaccines
Doctors here say the need for patients to source their care privately, or to purchase their own medical supplies for use in bare-bones public hospitals, is leaving untold numbers of poor Venezuelans to die during the pandemic. But the Fuenteses, aided financially by a family member now living in the United States, were able to buy oxygen tanks, IV drips, saline solution, needles and other costly supplies, then hire nurses to provide 24-hour care at home.
Like other Latin Americans in the middle and upper classes, they paid for doctors to make house calls. They even bought lifesaving courses of remdesivir, sourced from a burgeoning local black market for coronavirus drugs, at $140 per dose. After a total outlay of $20,000 in three weeks — a sum equal to 1,667 years worth of salary at Venezuela’s minimum wage — two ill family members have recovered. A third remains hooked up to oxygen and under 24-hour care, his condition gradually improving.
“If you don’t have money, you don’t have a chance,” said Belinda Fuentes, a 44-year old fitness instructor in New York who emptied her life savings to help her parents and older brother.
Residents unload bags of staples such as pasta, sugar, flour and kitchen oil provided by a government food assistance program this month in the Santa Rosalia neighborhood of Caracas. (Matias Delacroix/AP)
For thousands in Latin America, where the richest 1 percent earn 21 percent of the region’s income, double the average in the industrialized world, survival in a worsening pandemic is boiling down to economics.
“Sometimes, it’s just about the cost of oxygen, which some health services do not have enough of,” said Ciro Ugarte, director of health emergencies at the Pan American Health Organization. “Families are having to buy it and bring it to hospitals. If they don’t have the money, in severe cases, their family member will probably die.”
In Brazil, the epicenter of the region’s coronavirus crisis, cases are still surging, overburdening a health-care system skewed to serve the rich. Of the 45,848 intensive care beds in Brazil, slightly more than half are in costly private hospitals that serve a quarter of the population.
During Mexico’s punishing second coronavirus wave in January, more than 50 percent of covid-19 patients admitted to hospitals run by the Mexican Social Security Institute, the nation’s largest public health network, subsequently died. The rate in better-funded private hospitals was 20 percent, according to an analysis commissioned by the World Health Organization and released last week by the Institute for Global Health Sciences at the University of California at San Francisco.
Private hospitals in Latin America, where care can cost upward of $2,000 a day, remain largely the purview of the very rich. Home care is emerging as a less expensive alternative, even as it drains the resources of a middle class devastated by pandemic-related job losses.
A wealthy doctor and a favela merchant were hospitalized with covid-19. Then their stories diverged.
Dario Morales, a 36-year-old flight attendant in Peru, said his mother was infected in February. His stepfather, also diagnosed with the coronavirus, had died days earlier at a public hospital in the coastal city of Trujillo.
To avoid that fate, his mother pleaded with him to pay for home care. The bill for 10 days of oxygen, specialized drugs and in-home care from nurses and doctors: a financially crippling $2,800. He managed to cover it by giving up his apartment and moving in with friends.
“If we took her to a public hospital, it would have been, ‘Oh sorry, we don’t have space,’" Morales said. “Even if they did find a bed, she’d get no attention because there are too many patients and too few doctors and nurses.”
In Venezuela, a broken socialist state, the public health-care system has been so weakened that its citizens bear the highest out-of-pocket health-care costs in Latin America. Venezuelans cover 63 percent of their health expenditures on average, according to WHO and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development data — nearly double the rate in Chile, and more than four times that of Argentina.
People wait to refill empty oxygen canisters for family members with covid-19 this month in Caracas. (Matias Delacroix/AP)
Public hospitals are so underequipped and underfunded that one survey found that 92 percent of X-ray machines did not work and 68 percent of facilities lacked consistent running water. Patients routinely supply their own oxygen, needles, antibiotics and saline solution.
After sidestepping the worst of the pandemic last year, Venezuela ended strict lockdowns in December and has now witnessed a terrible surge. Official data from President Maduro’s opaque authoritarian government show roughly 183,000 infected and 1,900 dead. But those numbers, doctors say, do not begin to capture the true extent of the outbreak.
“If you got sick today, I have nowhere to put you,” said Julio Castro, an infectious-diseases specialist and adviser to the Venezuelan opposition on the coronavirus response. “For a year we have warned that things could get worse, and now the worst is happening.”
The pandemic has exacerbated scarcities of medical supplies and drugs, fueling a proliferation of WhatsApp chat rooms filled with private vendors offering oxygen concentrators for $5,000 and oxygen tanks for $500. Those are sums accessible only to the small and disappearing middle class and wealthy elites, leaving thousands of Venezuelans in need to turn to social media or GoFundMe sites.
Against the odds, Cuba could become a coronavirus vaccine powerhouse
In what once was South America’s richest nation per capita, years of corruption and mismanagement and falling oil prices have fueled deeper inequality. The rich and connected buy imported foods and lavish cars and belong to elegant country clubs. The extreme poor — 79.3 percent of the nation, according to a survey by Andres Bello Catholic University in Caracas — live in squalor, often in violent slums, and lack adequate food. Many have lost weight from what some call “the Maduro diet.”
Venezuela has secured precious few vaccine doses, and has reserved them for emergency responders and the elderly. Still, some elites have managed to access them. One wealthy Venezuelan said he had obtained the Russian Sputnik V vaccine through a personal local contact. The man, who spoke on the condition of anonymity out of fear of government retribution, said he had purchased vaccinations for himself and several staff members from the Domingo Luciani Hospital in Caracas at $200 a dose.
“If you have the money to pay, you can talk to the [nurse] on the floor and get what you need,” he said.
Protesters in the Los Palos Grandes neighborhood of Caracas last week demand a faster and more equitable distribution of coronavirus vaccines. (Matias Delacroix/AP)
For the poorest Venezuelans, meanwhile, the cost of the pandemic is fatally high.
Marilin Mijares came down with the covid-19 symptoms of cough, exhaustion and difficulty breathing two weeks ago. Her daughter Marialber Cabrera, a 35-year old who resells used goods in the northern state of Aragua, said she pleaded with the staff at two public hospitals to admit her.
“They were both at full capacity,” Cabrera said. “There was no room.”
Even if a bed became free, she was told, the family would have to provide the supplies — medical gloves ($15 a box), masks ($10 a box), an oxygen tank ($100) and refills ($50 each). For Cabrera’s father, a security guard who earns $6 a month, the cost was unimaginably high.
Should the rich pay for the pandemic? Argentina thinks so. Other countries are taking a look.
Cabrera’s grandmother had caught the virus and recovered, so they began a similar treatment for her mother at home: a combination of vitamins and ibuprofen purchased with donations from neighbors and extended family. But her mother’s symptoms worsened. When her breathing became extremely labored, Cabrera began begging private suppliers.
“I told them over the phone that we didn’t have any money and that my mom really needed oxygen,” she said, her voice breaking. “They just said, ´There is nothing we can do for you if you can’t pay.’”
Her family began a grim vigil, trying to comfort her mother as her condition deteriorated.
“The last time I saw her, she asked me to give her a shower,” Cabrera said. “She told me she loved me and that her love was unconditional and forever.”
The next morning, Cabrera was in line at a public hospital attempting to arrange an X-ray appointment for her mother when her father called. Mijares had started to “suffocate.”
“My dad was crying, saying she couldn't breathe,” Cabrera said. “My neighbors helped my father put her in a car. She died there. She couldn't breathe.”
“If she had had oxygen, my mother would still be alive,” she said. “What we are living is horrible.”
Now, both she and her father have come down with symptoms.
“Everything is in God’s hands now,” she said.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/04/25/coronavirus-venezuela-socialist-latin-america-inequality/


# 74
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 27.04.2021
Заглавие: 123 Brazil rejects Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, citing safety concerns


By Erin Cunningham and Robyn Dixon4:16 p.m.
Brazilian health regulators have issued a scathing rebuke of Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine, rejecting the shot’s approval in a decision late Monday that could affect its use elsewhere in the world.
The ruling from Brazil’s Health Regulatory Agency, or Anvisa, cited a range of concerns with the vaccine’s development and production, including what it said was a lack of quality control and efficacy data, as well as little if any information on the shot’s adverse effects.
It was not the first time that health authorities have raised concerns about Sputnik V, which was hailed as “safe” and more than 91 percent effective in a peer-reviewed article in the Lancet in February.
Earlier this month, Slovakia’s pharmaceutical regulator scrapped a batch of Sputnik V doses it said did not share “the same characteristics and properties” as those examined by the Lancet.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/04/27/sputnik-vaccine-brazil-russia-coronavirus/


#75
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 27.04.2021
Заглавие: Our generation’s ‘Sputnik moment’ has finally arrived


By James Hohmann
Columnist |
April 27, 2021 at 6:06 p.m. EDT
Ten years ago, during his State of the Union address, President Barack Obama invoked the Soviet Union’s 1957 launch of a satellite called Sputnik to make the case for massive public investment to retool the economy. The Russians beat us into space, he noted, but we beat them to the moon by spending heavily and unleashing innovation. “This is our generation’s Sputnik moment,” Obama declared.
The analogy failed to enter orbit. It was an age of austerity: Republicans had just taken control of the House; Democratic leaders genuinely feared deficits; and sequestration slashed discretionary spending. More important, there was no foreign foil scary enough to break the partisan fever: Obama was trying to “reset” relations with Russia, and he’d often say the United States “welcomes the rise of China.” He soon abandoned the “Sputnik moment” catchphrase.
But this may be President Biden’s chance to seize a Sputnik moment in a way that Obama never managed. With his first address to a joint session of Congress on Wednesday night, Biden has an opportunity to galvanize Americans to support his ambitious agenda, especially infrastructure investment, by highlighting the national imperative to come together to compete with a rising China.
Sputnik has been in the news again this year because Russia named its coronavirus vaccine after the 64-year-old triumph, but Biden knows Beijing has supplanted Moscow as Washington’s primary adversary. Biden, who served in the Senate during the final two decades of the Cold War, understands the motivating and organizing power of superpower rivalries. His predecessor showed how competition with the common foe of China can trump partisan politics.
Post Opinions columnists will offer real-time commentary on Biden’s speech to Congress. Follow along with their conversation starting at 8:45 p.m. Wednesday.
Every day brings chilling illustrations of the Chinese Communist Party’s hostility to freedom and its threat to the U.S.-led, rules-based international order. The regime harasses Taiwan, clamps down on Hong Kong and commits crimes against humanity in Xinjiang. When Beijing-born Chloé Zhao won the Oscar for best director on Sunday, the Chinese government censored the news and blocked social media conversations because Zhao had pointed out there are “lies everywhere” in China during a 2013 interview.
A new dystopian novel, “2034,” imagines World War III breaking out after a clash in the South China Sea just 13 years from now. Retired four-star admiral James Stavridis, the former supreme allied commander of NATO, and Elliot Ackerman, a former Marine who served five tours in Iraq and Afghanistan, tell a story in which the Chinese shut off power on the Eastern seaboard and disable state-of-the-art American aircraft because Beijing has secretly leapfrogged our technology. It’s a cautionary tale about how quickly conflict might escalate into nuclear combat if the United States allows its advantages to atrophy.
Earlier this month, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence released a quadrennial “Global Trends” report to forecast what the world could look like in 2040. The report anticipates geopolitics becoming more conflict-prone and increasingly shaped by the rivalry between China and the United States. The document, prepared by the National Intelligence Council, outlines five potential scenarios. The happiest is a “renaissance of democracies.” The bleakest is “tragedy and mobilization,” with the United States essentially overtaken.
It’s a sobering read, but the authors conclude with a reminder that the forces shaping the world “are not fixed in perpetuity.” If the United States can adapt, harness new technologies to boost economic growth and forge some kind of social consensus, we can win the future.
Thankfully, the septuagenarian in the Oval Office seems clear-eyed about this. During his first presidential news conference last month, Biden cited Beijing to make the case for investing in American workers. He promised not to let China become the world’s largest economy or most powerful military on his watch, but he framed the clash as bigger than one country. “Your children or grandchildren are going to be doing their doctoral thesis on the issue of who succeeded,” the president predicted, “autocracy or democracy.”
This message merits repetition and elaboration. Biden can invoke China when he addresses Congress, for instance, to explain why infrastructure means more than roads and bridges. Republicans and Democrats have expressed bipartisan support for increasing science funding and onshoring parts of the supply chain for critical technology that have drifted into China’s orbit, embracing what not long ago was derisively dismissed as industrial policy.
Just as President Dwight D. Eisenhower used Sputnik to build support for his agenda, which included the interstate highway system, beating Beijing requires Biden to rally support for expanding broadband, 5G, semiconductors, electric cars, artificial intelligence and so much more. A decade after Obama tried to summon Americans, that Sputnik moment may have finally arrived.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2021/04/27/our-generations-sputnik-moment-has-finally-arrived/




#76
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 28.04.2021
Заглавие: Russia reaches deal for Indian companies to produce Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine starting in May


By Robyn Dixon11:38 a.m.
MOSCOW — Russia has reached a deal for Indian pharmaceutical companies to manufacture as many as 850,000 doses of its vaccine Sputnik V, beginning next month, the Kremlin announced Tuesday, as India faces a devastating surge in covid-19 cases.
Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday and pledged to send more than 22 tons of aid, including ventilators, medical equipment and medicines.
A Kremlin readout of the call said Modi “warmly thanked” Putin, adding that the aid was “largely of a high-tech nature and is in great demand in the country.”
The Kremlin press services listed the items being sent as including 20 pieces of equipment for producing oxygen, 75 lung ventilators, 150 medical monitors and 200,000 packets of medicine.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund which backs and markets Sputnik V said Monday that Bangladesh had become the 62nd country to register the vaccine. The European Medicines Agency is conducting a rolling review of Sputnik V that could give E.U. countries the green light to use it.
Mexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard announced that country would produce the vaccine domestically during a trip to Moscow on Monday.




https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2021/04/28/coronavirus-covid-live-updates-us/


#77
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 28.04.2021
Заглавие: Filipinos feel helpless against latest coronavirus surge


People with covid-19 are dying after being turned away from hospitals in the Philippines
Many in the Philippines blame a lackluster effort by the government for the shortage of vaccines and hospital beds. (Regine Cabato, Jason Aldag/The Washington Post)
By Regine Cabato
April 28, 2021 at 1:10 p.m. EDT
CORRECTION
An earlier version of this article misidentified the relative who helped Jayson Maulit call the hospitals. It was his sister Hazel, not his other sister Janine. The article has been corrected.
MANILA — They called more than a dozen hospitals, from morning to midnight, but were denied.
It was just before Easter. Jayson Maulit and his sister Hazel were scrambling to find a hospital that would admit their 95-year-old great-grandmother, Ina Dalling, who was battling covid-19. One finally came through the next day in Batangas, 60 miles from where Maulit’s family lived east of Manila, that could take her as an emergency case — but there was no assurance of a bed if she survived.
It was good enough. They took an ambulance.
With the rest of Maulit’s family in isolation, he watched as Dalling was intubated, nurses called out code blue and she looked up one last time. She died about an hour after they arrived.
“I refuse to let her be a number and be remembered as a statistic, as collateral damage,” Maulit said.
Ina Dalling, 95, is taken by ambulance to a hospital in the Philippines after contracting covid-19. (Jayson Maulit)
There was barely time to grieve: The family had to find another hospital for Maulit’s grandmother Trining Gappi Maulit, who also had covid-19.
Similar tales are emerging in families across the Philippines, where Southeast Asia’s worst current outbreak has pushed total coronavirus cases beyond 1 million. Many who need treatment must be driven out of the capital, to hospitals as far as five hours away, as the health system buckles under the strain. The Philippines has recorded 16,000 deaths, with patients dying in their homes, on the road and sometimes right outside emergency room doors.
Some private hospitals have turned to home care, remote consulting and recruiting health-care workers from the provinces. The Health Department is developing a home care package for patients with mild cases of covid-19.
“We did not fall short,” President Rodrigo Duterte, who was absent from the public eye at the beginning of the latest virus wave, said in a televised address in mid-April.
Community pantries offer reprieve from covid-19 hardships in the Philippines
Health workers who say the outbreak could have been prevented disagree. Despite lower daily cases in the past week, hospitals were still full; some treated patients in wheelchairs in emergency rooms or in the driveway well into the third week of April.
At a private hospital in Makati City, there are still one or two deaths a day, long after doctors noticed the uptick in cases in March. “We realized at that point with the number of cases in the ER … we can’t save everyone,” said Ivan Zapanta, an internal medicine resident.
Those dying were getting younger, too — another challenge for health-care workers who must break the news to their families.
“This is alarming because these people are active and in good health, with no comorbid diseases,” Zapanta said. “This is proof that the virus is definitely evolving.”
Ambulance driver Oscar, who declined to reveal his full name because he works with government agencies, has seen the surge firsthand. He and his colleagues handle a total of 15 vehicles, which each could receive up to 10 calls a day. They usually can accommodate only three or four. The farthest he has driven to transport a patient is more than 120 miles out of metro Manila.
In late March, he watched as about 50 people hoping to enter an emergency room were turned away. Another time, a patient receiving oxygen had to wait eight hours. In one case, his colleagues drove to five hospitals before taking the patient home. He died shortly after arriving.
“As much as you would want to give them care, transport them, bring them to the hospital so they can get well, it’s not happening,” Oscar said. “People are dying. That’s the reality.”
There are still people on his waitlist, and a hospital can take four to five days to call back. He’s glad the government is now expanding covid-19 wards, but he can’t help but find the effort a little too late.
“How about those people who could have made it but they were not given a chance?” he said. “It’s good they’re reacting now, but isn’t it too late for the other patients?”
Ina Dalling and Trining Gappi Maulit pose for a photo. Both women died of covid-19 in the Philippines this year. (Jayson Maulit)
Recently, Maulit tested negative. He swore he wouldn’t die in the pandemic, saying he would want to see the government held accountable. The rest of his family is recovering from the coronavirus.
But shortly before midnight on April 21, about a month after the surge began, his grandmother Trining passed away.
“Across the spectrum, everyone is experiencing the inaccessibility of the health-care system,” Maulit said. “The stories of living family members will speak for the dead who weren’t able to get a chance to have adequate health care.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/04/28/filipinos-feel-helpless-against-latest-coronavirus-surge/


#78
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 28.04.2021
Заглавие: India’s coronavirus death toll tops 200,000 as infections surge and anger grows


By Erin Cunningham
 and 
Antonia Noori Farzan
 
April 28, 2021 at 12:23 p.m. EDT
India on Wednesday reported another record number of coronavirus cases and deaths, nudging its official covid-19 death toll past 200,000 as the virus coursed through urban centers and out into rural areas, leaving broken families and communities in its wake.
In a new global record, Indian authorities logged 360,960 infections in a 24-hour period, bringing the total number of cases to more than 17.9 million. India also reported 3,293 deaths, even as experts warned that many virus fatalities were going uncounted.
Coronavirus has crushed India’s health system. Patients are on their own.
India is driving a worldwide surge in cases, accounting for 38 percent of infections recorded in the seven-day period ending April 25, the World Health Organization said.
The global impact of the crisis has spurred some nations to step in and offer support, including the United States as President Biden who this week pledged vaccine materials, therapeutics and oxygen concentrators.
Speaking to Good Morning America on Wednesday, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Rochelle Walensky said that the United States was “deploying a strike team this week to go and assist” and working to get supplies to India “as soon as we can.”
Canada said Tuesday that it was sending $10 million to India’s Red Cross to fund ambulance services and personal protective equipment. And Singapore on Wednesday was transporting hundreds of oxygen cylinders to India on two C-130 aircraft.
South Korea also pledged to send “urgent medical supplies,” India’s ANI news agency reported, quoting its embassy in New Delhi.
Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday and said that planeloads of ventilators, oxygen-production units and other medical supplies were on the way to India, the Kremlin announced. India plans to begin manufacturing Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine in May to boost its vaccine supply.
China has repeatedly offered assistance to India, but Delhi has yet to accept those offers, pointing to a widening rift between the two countries, CNN reports.
India’s hospitals have faced severe oxygen supply shortages as the devastating wave of cases overwhelms the country’s health-care infrastructure. Many Indians have taken to social media to crowdsource oxygen cylinders and lifesaving drugs, or even plead for information on open hospital beds.
“The state is not available anywhere,” political activist Sadaf Jafar said in an interview with The Washington Post.
On Wednesday, just 10 intensive care beds were available for covid-19 patients in the capital, New Delhi, a city of more than 17 million people, according to a government dashboard.
The government pledged to mobilize resources, including from the armed forces, which said it was tapping into its own oxygen supply and pulling retired medical personnel back into service to assist with the crisis. Police in Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state, said they arrested dozens of people for selling oxygen cylinders and medicine used to treat covid-19 on the black market.


But in many places, that help may be coming too late. In some cities, including Delhi, makeshift crematoriums have been erected to cope with the growing number of dead. And over the past week alone, according to official figures, more than 2,000 infected people have died in India every day. That number is widely understood to be an underestimate: Journalists in the state of Gujarat found that more than 90 cremations and burials had taken place under coronavirus protocols in the past two days, but the state government’s data showed only eight deaths during that same period.
“Cremations are now being held on pavements as bodies pile up,” India’s the Wire news website reported Tuesday from the city of Nashik, where last week an oxygen leak at a hospital killed 22 coronavirus patients.
The Scroll, another independent news website, reported that “people are dropping dead like flies” in villages in Uttar Pradesh, as the virus spreads to more rural regions of the country.
“In villages, people are dying of fever and breathlessness even before they can be tested for the disease,” the site reported.
Local media outlets reported Tuesday that the wave of fatalities has even reached Modi’s family, as the prime minister’s aunt died at the age of 80 while undergoing treatment at a hospital.


The World Health Organization said Tuesday that multiple virus variants now circulating in India were accelerating the outbreak. At least two, which were first detected in Britain and South Africa, have been linked with higher rates of transmission.
One variant identified in India in December, known as B.1.617, has several mutations associated with increased transmissibility, the WHO said, but it was unclear if that variant was responsible for the surge.
Before the stunning increase in cases, the Indian government had described the virus as largely defeated and relaxed public health measures and allowed large crowds to gather for religious festivals and political rallies.


Devotees take dips in the Ganges River during the Kumbh Mela festival in Haridwar, India, on April 12, 2021. (Karma Sonam/AP)
India plans to open up vaccinations to everyone over the age of 18 on May 1, but a government website allowing people to preregister for appointments crashed soon after those slots opened up Wednesday.
Outrage at the government over the crisis was growing. The Indian Medical Association issued a scathing statement describing Modi as a “failed prime minister” and “super spreader” who held massive political rallies instead of strengthening the country’s health-care infrastructure.
On Wednesday, following a public outcry, authorities scrapped plans to use a luxury hotel in New Delhi as a coronavirus facility to treat India’s high-court judges.
Government officials said the day before that they had reserved 100 rooms at the Ashoka Hotel to treat judges, court staff and their relatives, even as other hospitals in the city have turned away desperate and dying patients.
“Who is responsible for the oxygen and vaccine shortages? Where is the Indian state?” read a column posted Tuesday on the Wire.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/04/28/india-coronavirus-record-cases-delhi/


#79
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 30.04.2021
Заглавие: India’s coronavirus surge creates vaccine supply turmoil far beyond its borders


By Adam Taylor
April 30, 2021 at 7:08 p.m. EDT
As coronavirus cases surged this month in India, the country that houses the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, the government began to pause vaccine exports.
Shipments ground to a halt by mid-April. Now, with domestic need for vaccine in India overwhelming capacity and program extending to adults over 18 this weekend, it is not clear when India will begin exporting doses again.
The suspension of exports in April has contributed to a 90 million-dose shortfall for Covax, an international vaccine distribution effort, one of the group’s key backers said Friday. That number will only grow in May if restrictions are not lifted.
The limited supply would be a particularly big blow for low-income nations, many of which not only sought India-produced AstraZeneca through Covax but also pursued bilateral deals with Serum Institute of India, the Pune-based vaccine giant.
Here’s just how unequal the global coronavirus vaccine rollout has been
Arindam Bagchi, a spokesman for India’s Foreign Ministry, said Friday there was “no update” on when vaccine exports would resume.
Andrea Taylor, a researcher at Duke University’s Global Health Innovation Center who leads a team tracking vaccine deals and distribution, said continuing delays in Indian exports would be “devastating” for the poorer nations, adding that Covax would probably meet only a fraction of its distribution goals for May.
“There is no contingency plan or alternate supplier for the next few months,” Taylor said.
The Indian government has faced criticism for exporting millions of doses abroad before it secured enough doses for its population of 1.36 billion. Despite new case numbers that set global records and a death toll of over 200,000, less than 1 in 10 Indians have received a dose.
In India’s devastating coronavirus surge, anger at Modi grows
Even with export controls, vaccination sites in India have complained of severe problems with supply. On Thursday, Mumbai announced it would close vaccination sites in the city center until Sunday after running out of doses.
Outside India, the profound impact of the export ban suggests other manufacturing options are needed, said Thomas Bollyky, a senior fellow at the Council of Foreign Relations.
“The Serum Institute of India is a terrific contract manufacturer of vaccines,” he said. “It is not sufficient to meet global needs.”
In a statement, Gavi, a vaccine alliance that backs Covax, said further delays in May would be a “significant short-term challenge” for Covax.
In total, 49 million doses had been distributed through Covax, of which 29 million were from Serum, the statement said.


People wait to receive the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine at in Blantyre, Malawi, on March 29. (Thoko Chikondi/AP)
Officials from the African Union, which also arranged supplies from Serum, have expressed alarm, with top health official John Nkengasong saying this month that the export controls could be “catastrophic” for the continent.
Nkengasong, who heads the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said this week that what was happening in India could eventually happen in Africa. “We are living in a world that is extremely uncertain now,” he told reporters in Nairobi on Thursday.
According to data collected by the Indian government, exports of vaccine have slowed to a stop. India exported over 28 million doses in March, up from 17 million in February, with most doses coming from Serum.
That number declined steeply in April to less than 1.9 million. No vaccine has been exported since April 16, according to the Indian data.
India initially portrayed the export restrictions as a temporary measure. V.K. Paul, a top health official and co-chair of India’s vaccine distribution group, said in an interview in early April that the restrictions were not a “scaling down” but a “slowing down” that would be resolved within weeks.
But with new cases in India still soaring — reaching another global record of 386,452 on Friday, with the total death toll over 200,000 — it was not clear when exports would resume.
In a bid to beat back infection rates, anyone over 18 will be eligible for vaccinations across India starting Saturday. Several Indian states have said they do not have enough supplies for the large expansion of eligibility.
Serum has said it is able to produce between 60 million and 70 million doses per month. Bharat Biotech, another Indian company that has developed a vaccine called Covaxin, is producing 10 million per month.
Adar Poonawalla, Serum’s chief executive, has blamed the slow pace of vaccine production in India on U.S. export controls on raw materials, calling on President Biden to “truly unite in beating this virus” in a tweet this month.


Employees at a Serum Institute lab in Pune, India, on Nov. 30. (Francis Mascarenhas/Reuters)
International organizations, including Gavi and others, have also called on countries to lift restrictions on exports and release excess doses.
The United States has pledged to share its supplies of AstraZeneca, not yet approved domestically, with foreign nations. Twenty million doses are expected to go to India. The Indian government has also reached an agreement to obtain 5 million doses of Sputnik V, a Russian-backed vaccine.
The United States announced on April 28 that it's sending more than $100 million worth of supplies to India to help fight a surge of coronavirus cases. (Reuters)
Such deals will be too little, too late to stop the immediate spread of the virus. It will take weeks, if not longer, to obtain and distribute the doses. AstraZeneca, like Sputnik and Covaxin, does not confer immunity immediately and requires two doses.
“There’s no way to vaccinate your way out of this surge,” Bollyky said. In the short term, he added, treatment and social distancing policies may be more important.
There are concerns that other countries may be on the same path as India. Nepal, India’s smaller neighbor facing its own surge, received only half of its order from Serum before India’s export restriction. Less than one-tenth of its population has received a dose, and it is now seeking more supplies from Russia and China.
“For the next India, we need to be ahead of it, not behind it,” Bollyky said.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/04/30/india-coronavirus-vaccine-supply/


#80
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 30.04.2021
Заглавие: Bolsonaro has insulted much of the world. Now Brazil needs its help.


By Terrence McCoy
April 30, 2021 at 6:00 a.m. EDT
RIO DE JANEIRO — Two developing countries, enormous in population and geography, in the grip of devastating coronavirus outbreaks. Hospitals running out of supplies. Patients turned away. A new variant everywhere. Outside help desperately needed.
For India, upended by record infection rates, the world has responded. The White House this week touted the delivery of more than $100 million in supplies. Singapore and Thailand sent oxygen. Britain’s Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the United Kingdom would do “all it can.”
But for Brazil, which has buried some 140,000 coronavirus victims in the past two months, the international response has been more muted. President Jair Bolsonaro in March called on international organizations to help. A group of state governors asked the United Nations for “humanitarian aid.” The Brazilian ambassador to the European Union begged two weeks ago for help: “It’s a race against time to save many lives in Brazil.”
But the response has largely been a shrug, criticism of Brazil’s missteps — and limited action, so far.
“What’s happening in Brazil is a tragedy that should have been prevented,” one member of the European Parliament told the Brazilian ambassador at a hearing this month. “But this [is a] tragedy that was based on wrong political decisions.”
Brazil battles coronavirus with a Chinese vaccine even the Chinese concede could be better
“Instead of declaring war against the coronavirus,” lectured another, “Bolsonaro declared war against science, medicine, common sense and life.”
Since Tuesday, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has tweeted three times about helping India. She’s said little about Brazil.
The contrast between how the international community has addressed the crises in India and Brazil shows how Brasilia’s mounting diplomatic struggles have complicated the country’s coronavirus response. The international image it has spent decades cultivating — environmentally focused, amiable, multilateral — has been undercut by a president whose administration has insulted much of the world at the very time Brazil was in most need of its help.
Bolsonaro, a far-right nationalist who came to power inveighing against globalism, has accused environmentally inclined European countries of colonialism and illegal deforestation. He amplified a social media post disparaging the appearance of French President Emmanuel Macron’s wife. He echoed President Donald Trump’s baseless claims of electoral fraud, and was the last leader in the G-20 to recognize President Biden’s victory. For months, members of his administration and supporters have fanned racist attacks on China and mocked its vaccine. On Tuesday, his finance minister said China had “invented the virus.”
Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, right, appears with Environment Minister Ricardo Salles at the Planalto Palace in Brasilia last week during the climate summit convened by President Biden. (Marcos Correa/Brazil presidency/EPA-EFE/Shutterstock) 
Since the beginning of the pandemic, Brazil’s federal government has downplayed the severity of a virus that has maimed this country of 210 million. Bolsonaro has called on people to live their lives normally. Enough have listened — either because of poverty, politics or boredom — to undermine uneven containment measures. More than 400,000 Brazilians have died of covid-19, the worst humanitarian disaster in the nation’s history, and the world’s second-highest toll, behind only the United States.
Now, still mired in the deadliest days of its outbreak — 3,001 more deaths were reported Thursday — a country that has long prided itself on being friends with almost everyone finds itself largely friendless.
“The whole world is trying to help India,” said Mauricio Santoro, a political scientist at the State University of Rio de Janeiro. “But Bolsonaro has become such an international problem that no one will help him.
“No one is talking about giving Brazil much help.”
Calls to impeach Bolsonaro are rising, but his grip on Brazil remains strong
U.S. Air Force prepares oxygen shipment for coronavirus aid for India
Pallets of oxygen cylinders were packaged on April 27 to leave Travis Air Force Base in Fairfield, Calif., for India, where coronavirus cases are surging. (DVIDS via Storyful)
Asked why the United States hasn’t moved to support Brazil with the urgency it has shown in India, a State Department spokesperson provided a list of U.S. aid to Brazil, primarily last spring, before the worst of the country’s outbreak, amounting to more than $20 million in government assistance. The spokesperson also noted $75 million in “private sector support.” The aid, most of it sent during the Trump administration, included 1,000 ventilators and 2 million hydroxychloroquine pills.
“We continue to actively engage with the Brazilian government to discuss their needs and find ways to continue to partner with Brazil to help meet those needs,” the State Department spokesperson said.
Other countries have chipped in, too. Germany sent ventilators after the medical system in the Amazonian city of Manaus failed. The World Health Organization has started shipping vaccines through a program to address global inequalities in vaccine distribution. The European Union and its member states have provided some $28 million in grants since the start of the pandemic, according to a spokesperson. In response to a request by Brazil in March, the bloc helped dispatch “80,000 units of critically needed medicines” to Brazil.
But the lack of more international assistance — or even much expression of solidarity — during Brazil’s most desperate months has confirmed fears here that Brazil would pay an international price for Bolsonaro’s confrontational foreign policy and his flouting of coronavirus measures broadly accepted by global leaders.
“On so many levels, the country has lost influence,” said Oliver Stuenkel, a professor of international relations at the Getulio Vargas Foundation in São Paulo.
Brazil has never been a country that could spite the world. Vast, unequal and developing, Brazil has traditionally pursued what Stuenkel described as a “predictable” foreign policy that hinged on building alliances. Year after year, it has tried to extend the reach of its diplomatic corps, one of the largest in the developing world.
Turning against that history was a gamble Brazil couldn’t afford.
For Brazil’s doctors, choosing who lives and who dies exacts a toll
“America could get away with having a Trump because it doesn’t need the world that much,” Stuenkel said. “It can produce its own vaccines. But in Brazil, that behavior has been particularly reckless because it’s a country that depends on the international community. We don’t have hard power. We need multilateralism.”
A health care worker injects a woman with the Sinovac vaccine Wednesday in Sao Joao de Meriti, Rio de Janeiro state. (Silvia Izquierdo/AP)
Instead, Bolsonaro’s administration undermined faith in China and its vaccines at the same time Brazil was depending on the country for vaccine materials. Bolsonaro’s former education minister tweeted a racist message last April, drawing a rebuke from China and the Brazilian supreme court. The president’s son Eduardo, a Brazilian congressman, blamed China for the pandemic, then accused it of using 5G for espionage.
The Chinese government warned of “negative consequences” if such rhetoric continued. In January, China’s shipment of vaccine materials to Brazil was badly delayed, leading to speculation and some media reports that the government’s insults had yielded consequences.
This week, just as Brazilian health authorities turned away the Russian vaccine Sputnik V, citing a lack of transparency, Finance Minister Paulo Guedes went after the Chinese vaccine that Brazil does have.
“The Chinese invented the virus,” he said. “And their vaccine is less effective than the American.”
The Chinese ambassador lashed back: “Until this moment, China is the main vaccine and materials supplier to Brazil.”
The ones who are paying the cost of these diplomatic disputes are ordinary Brazilians, said Michael Shifter, president of the Washington-based Inter-American Dialogue.
“The Brazilian people are suffering and dying in these numbers,” he said. “And that’s the tragic part.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/04/30/brazil-coronavirus-bolsonaro-india-vaccine/


#81
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 30.04.2021
Заглавие: White House is split over how to vaccinate the world


By Dan Diamond
and 
Jeff Stein
April 30, 2021 at 2:57 p.m. EDT
A high-stakes fight over drug companies’ response to the coronavirus pandemic has split the Biden administration, with activists and progressives urging the White House to back an international petition to waive the companies’ patents — and some senior officials privately signaling they’re open to the idea.
FAQ: What to know about the omicron variant of the coronavirus
The debate has reignited decades-old tensions in global health, pitting such influential figures as Pope Francis, who backs the patent-waiver proposal, against philanthropist Bill Gates, who’s opposed. It has also challenged U.S. officials who have prioritized this nation’s coronavirus response but know that the virus’s continued spread and mutation overseas will eventually pose risks to Americans.
The proposal was discussed last week by Anthony S. Fauci, a top coronavirus adviser to President Biden, and Katherine Tai, the U.S. trade representative, who spoke about ways to help the developing world as it reels from a worsening crisis.
Fauci briefed Tai on the benefits of sharing technologies from companies that hold vaccine patents — a position that he supports, arguing that it would allow developing countries to rapidly produce their own vaccines, said people with knowledge of White House deliberations who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the conversations’ sensitivity. Tai separately told colleagues that she’s considered advocating to lift some patent protections but is still gathering information, said two of those people.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki on April 26 announced that the United States would share AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine with countries. (The Washington Post)
But other officials in the Commerce Department and the coronavirus task force warn that waiving the patents could backfire, including by handing intellectual property to international rivals. They also say that allowing new manufacturers to compete for scarce vaccine ingredients and expertise could hinder existing production, and that donating doses to countries in need would be more efficient.
The patent fight centers on a proposal in front of the World Trade Organization, which would allow the global trade body’s 164 member nations to stop enforcing a group of coronavirus-related patents for the duration of the pandemic.
That proposal has been spearheaded by India and South Africa, which argue that relaxing the patents would allow more countries to produce or import generic versions of coronavirus vaccines, rather than wait months or years for enough doses to immunize their populations. Dozens of developing countries have signed on to the seven-month-old effort, which has attracted renewed attention as the virus ravages India, causing thousands of deaths per day and the rationing of health services.
India’s devastating outbreak is driving the global coronavirus surge
But the United States and other wealthy nations, including Britain and Canada, have helped block the petition, with officials worried that it would throw global vaccine production into disarray, prompting advocates to complain that the White House is prioritizing drug companies’ billion-dollar profits rather than the billions of people still waiting for their first shots.
“We’re putting a lot of pressure on the Biden administration because the U.S. public actually co-funded a lot of this research through Operation Warp Speed,” said Fatima Hassan, who leads South Africa’s Health Justice Initiative and is among the activists calling for a “people’s vaccine.”
Hassan said the companies have treated the vaccines as a “commodity” rather than a public good, and she appealed to Biden to pressure the companies to voluntarily share their scientific discoveries — or face the temporary loss of their patents. “It’s really amazing to me that you have one of the most powerful countries in the world, and it can’t take on four CEOs,” Hassan added, charging that the leaders of Moderna, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer and AstraZeneca have not done enough to make their coronavirus vaccines available to developing countries.
Pharmaceutical companies counter that they’ve taken dramatic steps to aid the global response, such as collaborating on vaccine development to produce as many as 10 billion doses this year, with more than 1.5 billion of those reserved for poorer countries. Industry officials say accelerating vaccine production would provide more rapid assistance to hard-hit nations. 
“We could hand them the patents, and we could say, ‘These are the types of quality-control measures that have to be in place.’ But you know, it can take us five to 10 years to stand up a brand-new manufacturing facility,” said Anne McDonald Pritchett, a senior vice president at the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the industry’s trade association.
The drug industry, along with other businesses and outside intellectual-property experts, also has warned the White House that loosening the patents would create a thicket of legal challenges and could backfire when the pandemic is over. For instance, rival nations such as China and Russia are eager to learn the secrets of the technology behind vaccines supported by billions of dollars in U.S. taxpayer funds.
Waiving the patent protections would be “disastrous for innovation. It would be very bad for the United States in the long term and short term,” argued Andrei Iancu, who was undersecretary of commerce for intellectual property and director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office during the Trump administration.
Inside the White House, officials have wrestled with how to proceed, with some teams pushing to use the patent issue as leverage with the pharmaceutical industry to ramp up its global efforts and others worried that it would subvert the United States’ own coronavirus response.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi raised the patent issue in a call Monday with Biden, according to a statement from Modi’s office. White House officials declined to comment on the conversation and the administration’s broader deliberations. While Biden did not directly address the issue in his speech to Congress on Wednesday night, he vowed that the United States “will become an arsenal of vaccines for other countries, just as America was the arsenal of democracy for the world.” Officials are debating how many millions of stockpiled doses to donate.
U.S. joins aid shipments into virus-ravaged India, but vaccine shortages hobble the fight
The patent fight has intensified as public health experts warn that the coronavirus pandemic is worsening in India and other parts of the world, even as it recedes in the United States. The World Health Organization reported 5.7 million new global cases last week, an 8 percent weekly jump and the highest level on record, driven by the explosion of infections in India.
 “In light of this growing humanitarian crisis, I urge you to leverage all tools and resources available to the United States to provide relief to India,” Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) wrote Biden on Wednesday, laying out possible steps such as using the waiver to compel companies to share their “know-how” with the World Health Organization.
‘We have … an artificial scarcity’
For some global health experts, the coronavirus fight has fueled an old accusation: that wealthy nations and deep-pocketed companies are hoarding expertise and treatments, while less-fortunate nations wait and suffer.
It’s also evoked comparisons to a 1990s-era battle that pitted drugmakers with patented HIV medicines against health officials in developing countries trying to manufacture cheaper generics. That fight culminated in former South African president Nelson Mandela accusing the companies of using patents to try to profit off the spreading outbreak in his country, prompting drugmakers to back down.
The renewed tensions have spilled out in public, including in a briefing Wednesday by the ONE Campaign, a global health advocacy organization.
“It’s a very divisive issue, let’s be honest about this,” said José Manuel Barroso, a former prime minister of Portugal and chair of a global vaccine alliance known as Gavi, which is backed by pharmaceutical companies. Barroso said that in his personal capacity, he had supported the temporary waiver of vaccine patents. “But frankly, now [in] 2021, this will not solve our problem,” he added, calling instead for more sharing and production of doses that he argued would lead to quicker results.
“I respectfully disagree,” countered Winnie Byanyima, the executive director of the Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS, which is part of a pro-waiver coalition. “Just a handful of companies actually can decide who gets the vaccine, who gets to buy and who gets to be vaccinated. Yes, we can talk about donations but surely cannot donate what is not there — we have a scarcity. And it’s an artificial scarcity.”
While the White House has touted its decision to share millions of doses and supplies with India this week, advocates also say it puts a spotlight on what Biden didn’t do. “This piecemeal response and using exceptional measures and charity to respond to a situation of a grave public health crisis is not a sustainable way to move forward,” said Hassan, the South African advocate.
Hassan also noted that under South Africa’s plan, vaccines will not be widely available until late 2021 and she may not be immunized until February 2022. “I’m under 65, I have no comorbidities, so I’ll rightly be last in line,” she said.
About 0.5 percent of South Africans and 9 percent of Indians have been vaccinated against the coronavirus so far, compared with more than 43 percent of Americans, according to data tracked by the Our World in Data project at the University of Oxford.
A patient registers her details at a mobile coronavirus testing station in the Dunkeld suburb of Johannesburg. (Waldo Swiegers/Bloomberg News)
White House divisions
Within the Biden administration, the patent-protection debate has split the White House along multiple political and policy factions, said three officials with knowledge of the discussions. Progressives have argued with centrists about whether the administration is wrongly siding with the pharmaceutical industry, which has lobbied to preserve its patent protections. International aid experts have wrangled with the officials focused on domestic virus response, who have worried that efforts to shake up global supply chains could undercut efforts to help Americans now.
“The people whose job it is to protect the property of U.S. businesses are up in arms that it’s a bad idea,” said one official involved in the patent discussions who spoke on the condition of anonymity. “The people whose job is to defeat the pandemic are much more receptive to it.”
[Perspective | Waiving vaccine patents won’t help inoculate poorer nations]
The growing pressure over patent protections has emerged as an early test for Tai, the new U.S. trade representative, who is expected to soon make a recommendation to the White House about whether to support waiving some of the requirements overseen by the World Trade Organization’s Council for Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, or TRIPS.
Tai told a World Trade Organization virtual conference this month that “the highest standards of courage and sacrifice are demanded of us in times of crisis. The same needs to be demanded of industry” — a comment widely interpreted as a signal that drugmakers should brace for a waiver recommendation.
But officials familiar with Tai’s thinking said the trade representative was committed to hearing all sides, noting that she held conversations this week with leaders of companies that hold patents on vaccines as well as with experts like Gates. Tai also is exploring whether there might be ways to boost global vaccine production without waiving the requirements altogether, such as by having WTO member nations use emergency powers to produce patent-protected products.
Some of the health officials who helped develop the coronavirus vaccines being deployed across the United States have argued that more can be done to speed vaccine production. Barney Graham, deputy director at the Vaccine Research Center at the National Institutes of Health, said the U.S. government has “some leverage,” having developed some of the technology used in Moderna’s vaccine.
“I think everyone is in agreement that working as fast as we can to provide vaccines for the world is in the best interests of everyone since we are all in this together, and the faster we vaccinate, the less likely new variants will emerge,” Graham said.
‘A wake-up call’
Drug industry leaders share that assessment but contend that they’ve taken appropriate steps to vaccinate the world, pointing to arrangements with Covax, an initiative set up to distribute billions of coronavirus vaccines globally. The administration’s priority, they say, should be to help source supplies to make the vaccines, which can have hundreds of proprietary components.
“One of our biggest challenges is, simply, the access to some of the critical raw materials that we need,” said PhRMA’s McDonald Pritchett, noting that phospholipids, one key ingredient in the mRNA vaccines, are produced by just four manufacturers, including one that is attempting to ramp up its production about 100-fold since last year. “We need to identify additional ways to further expand capacity.”
Progressives’ rallying cry is that the crisis is a test of the nation’s moral authority in the world.
“The Biden administration has an obligation to reverse the damage done by the Trump administration and reestablish our nation’s global reputation as a public health leader,” Rep. Rosa L. DeLauro (D-Conn.), chair of the House Appropriations Committee, said last month, calling for the waiver.
But other lawmakers who oppose the waiver warn that loosening the protections would harm the nation on the global stage. Sen. Christopher A. Coons (D-Del.), a close ally of Biden, has even invoked the Jan. 6 storming of the Capitol among the reasons to protect patents, saying it revealed the need to unite the country.
“All of this is a wake-up call for us that we need to have another Sputnik-like moment of reinvestment in American innovation and competitiveness,” Coons added at a think tank event last week. “A central part of being successful in this competition is continuing with our constitutionally created protected-property right of a patent.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2021/04/30/biden-administration-debates-waiving-vaccine-patents/


#82
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 10.05.2021
Заглавие: Transcript: Coronavirus: Vaccines & Variants with Vin Gupta, MD, and Peter Hotez, MD, PhD


By Washington Post Live
May 10, 2021 at 6:36 p.m. EDT
 DR. HOTEZ: Well, you know, my colleagues at the Center for Countering Digital Hate estimate around 58 million followers on these anti-vaccine group sites, social media sites--so it's become massive. And we now know that the Russian Government has been piling on with this systematic program of what's being called weaponized health communication that is specifically working to discredit COVID-19 vaccines.
The third element, though, is--and the one that's really been targeting me lately--is these links to political extremism on the far right and white nationalism groups, and that's newer in the sense that we started seeing it around 2015 under this banner of health freedom, medical freedom here in Texas, but it's become much more pervasive and cutting across the country and even across elements of the Republican Party and GOP. And that gives me a lot of pause for concern, that this new third component may be the worst yet for us.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: Last week the U.S. came out in support of waiving intellectual property rights for COVID vaccines. But you've said that these patents aren't even close to being one of the top barriers for vaccine access. Why is that, and what are the top barriers?
DR. HOTEZ: Yeah, in fact I just came out this morning with a piece in Foreign Affairs with two colleagues. And it's not that patents are not--patent waivers and patent holds are not helpful; they are. It's just my feeling is they're less impactful than they are for small molecule drugs. You know, if you know the structure of a small molecule drug, like an antiretroviral drug, there's a good chance that you can bring together chemists and formulation experts, produce it, and the only thing standing in your way is a patent.
With vaccines, it's far more complex. Vaccines of course are biologics. They take years of training to know how to scale up production and do it under a quality umbrella for quality control and quality assurance. You need the regulatory oversight. And that's why so few countries actually produce their own vaccines. The one that's most notable in this context is India, but Brazil does it, Cuba does it. But for instance, there's no vaccines right now made on the African continent. Latin America underachieves. Same with the Middle East, and same with many parts of Asia.
So, the long-term prospect is to build capacity, and as was said in the last interview with Dr. Gupta, provide vaccines now. I mean, look at the scope of what we're talking about. You have 1.1 billion people in Sub-Saharan Africa, 650 million people in Latin America, half a billion people in some of the smaller low-income countries of Asia. That's two, two-and-a-half billion people. That's 5-6 billion doses of vaccines, and we need it now.
So, in addition to what was said earlier about donating vaccines, we need another big ask for the U.S. government that's as important or more important than the patent waivers, and that is help producing a bucket of vaccine. We need a ton of vaccine. So, for instance, we're scaling up production of our own low-cost recombinant protein COVID-19 vaccine. Our colleagues at Biological E are scaling it up now to produce a billion doses that's going into phase three trials. We need a lot more than a billion. Could we get help, for instance, from the U.S. government to produce some of the other 4-5 billion doses that are necessary? Maybe partner with one of the big multinational companies? So, that's what we need. We need greater recognition that we need lots of vaccine, and we need it now. And it is doable, but I'm not certain there's that focus right now.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: Pfizer and Moderna have, probably not surprisingly, argued against the patent waivers, and of course the industry says that it would undermine industry innovation. Do you buy any of that argument?
DR. HOTEZ: Well, I think there are probably ways around it. I mean, there could be some patent waivers in order to produce mRNA vaccine for COVID-19. But as I said, even if you were to waive all the patents tomorrow, it's not as if suddenly lots of mRNA vaccine doses are going to appear. I mean, the technology is still immature in the sense that--I mean, it's a great vaccine. I got my Pfizer BioNTech vaccine, and I'm grateful for it. And they're high performance in the sense of high levels of protection. But it's still the new technology to scale up. So, simply waiving the patents would not be adequate.
If we really wanted to do that, what need more than the patents is for the Pfizer BioNTech people to actually help set up facilities for production in low and middle-income countries. That would be--that would be probably a more helpful priority. It doesn't mutually exclude the patent waivers, but I think it's--the thing that I worry about is people are going to sit back and they say, okay, we checked that box on the patent waivers, okay, we're done. And the answer's no, we need help from the Biden administration to scale up our vaccine to work with Moderna and Pfizer for scaling up production in low and middle-income countries of the mRNA vaccines. And look at the patents--and I'm sure there are components that can be waived--but I worry that we're not keeping our eyes on the prize in terms of what really needs to be done.
MS. WINFIELD CUNNINGHAM: We're almost out of time, but I want to ask you a last question about the vaccine that's being used in India, Covishield. And we know the vaccines developed by China have been less effective. By using those less effective vaccines, how much of a delay is that going to cause in the ability of India and these other countries to really move past the pandemic?
DR. HOTEZ: Well, India--you know, India is probably--has more vaccine development capacity than most of the world. They're the one big asterisk maybe--and Brazil as well, and Indonesia to some extent, in terms of low- and middle-income countries that punch above their weight in making vaccines. So, Serum Institute is making AstraZeneca vaccine. Biological E is making our vaccine, and they're helping with the production of the J&J vaccine. You have Bharat that's making Covaxin and which is an inactivated virus vaccine, and another entity scaling up the Sputnik V, the adenovirus vaccine. So, they are--they are ramping up.
They do need help in terms of supply chain management and free access to everything they need. So, the question we need to ask--the most important thing is to ask the Indian manufacturers what do you need. What's missing in terms of your ability to scale up and then proceed accordingly? Don't forget, there's also a domino effect, because the whole game plan for vaccinating the world depended on India. India was supposed to be the biggest--one of the biggest suppliers to places like Africa and elsewhere, and now that's cut off because they're focusing on India. So, there's this horrific domino effect. And that's where we need--we need a more coherent foreign policy for how we're going to make lots of vaccine and make it now.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/washington-post-live/2021/05/10/transcript-coronavirus-vaccines-variants-with-vin-gupta-md-peter-hotez-md-phd/


#83
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 17.05.2021
Заглавие: India’s coronavirus vaccination drive is faltering just when the country needs it most


By Joanna Slater
May 17, 2021 at 3:00 a.m. EDT
NEW DELHI — As India confronts a devastating coronavirus outbreak where thousands are dying each day, the country desperately needs to vaccinate its population as soon as possible.
Yet the vaccine drive is stumbling just when it is most crucial.
Over the past six weeks, the number of vaccinations per day has fallen by about half, from a high of 4.2 million per day on April 2 to 2 million on Thursday.
Vaunted as the largest in the world, India’s vaccine program is being hobbled by supply shortages and an abrupt shift in procurement policy that appears to be without parallel. The woes of the inoculation drive are especially striking given India’s unique advantages, including a large vaccine industry and a record of mass immunization campaigns.
       
Priyanka Chopra Jonas's Indian restaurant, SONA, in New York City has dedicated a dish to covid-19 relief efforts in India. (Zoeann Murphy/The Washington Post)
In an Indian city, obituaries reveal missing coronavirus deaths and untold suffering
Just months ago, public health experts were counting on India to play a crucial role in supplying coronavirus vaccines to the developing world. The government was so confident of its ability to meet domestic demand for vaccines that it allowed more than 60 million doses to be exported or donated to other countries between January and March.
Now the vaccine exports are a source of increasing anger. In Delhi, posters appeared with a question for Prime Minister Narendra Modi: “Why did you send our children’s vaccines abroad?” Police arrested and questioned more than 20 people in connection with the posters over the weekend.
Faced with surging infections, India suspended exports at the end of March and has begun importing Russia’s Sputnik vaccine to try to alleviate the shortfall in local production. Last week, the government acknowledged that vaccine shortages in India will persist at least until July.
“To cover the entire nation, please remember it will take a little while,” V.K. Paul, a senior health official, told reporters on Thursday. “We should accept that as a reality with humility.”
The inability to accelerate the vaccination drive in the short term means that immunizations will do little to blunt the ferocity of the current wave of infections: To date, only 10 percent of Indians have received at least one shot.
A spokeswoman for India’s Health Ministry and a senior official involved in the vaccination effort did not respond to requests for comment on the slowing inoculation drive.
Vaccinating India’s more than 1.3 billion people was always going to be a monumental task. But experts say that India’s present predicament is the product of miscalculations and optimistic predictions by policymakers and manufacturers.
Serum Institute of India, one of the largest vaccine makers in the world, struck deals early in the pandemic to make hundreds of millions of doses for India and the developing world. In an interview with The Washington Post last year, Adar Poonawalla, the firm’s chief executive, said the company hoped to boost its production of the AstraZeneca vaccine to 80 million to 100 million doses a month by the start of 2021.


That target has remained elusive. Serum’s current monthly production of the AstraZeneca vaccine hovers around 65 million to 70 million doses a month. Poonawalla has cited shifting reasons for the company’s inability to increase production further, including a lack of funds and a fire that broke out in January at a newly constructed building. (At the time of the fire, he had said it would not affect the manufacturing of coronavirus vaccines.)
The fire pushed back the ramping up of production by “a few months,” said a spokesman for Serum Institute in written responses to questions, commenting on the condition of anonymity to adhere to company policy. He did not cite previous curbs on exports of raw materials by the United States as a factor affecting the production of the AstraZeneca vaccine, something Poonawalla implied in a tweet last month. The company now says it will start manufacturing 100 million such doses a month in July.
Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech, the maker of a locally developed vaccine called Covaxin, were probably too confident, said K.V. Balasubramaniam, the former chief executive of another Indian vaccine maker. “There would be a tendency for these companies to exaggerate their capabilities.”
Meanwhile, the Indian government displayed little urgency about buying large amounts of vaccines in advance, unlike governments in the United States and Europe.
When coronavirus cases plummeted in India late last year, health officials seemed content with more limited quantities of vaccines, thinking the worst was over and they might not “need to immunize the whole country,” said one vaccine executive who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the matter candidly. The government “didn’t take us seriously when we said you cannot expand overnight.”
In India's surge, a religious gathering attended by millions helped the virus spread
India did not place its first purchase orders — for just 16 million vaccines — until January. Its first large-scale purchase came in March, when it ordered 100 million doses from Serum Institute and 20 million from Bharat Biotech. Late last month it ordered 160 million doses from the two companies to be delivered by July.
Instead of placing large advance orders, the government is “buying vaccines like monthly groceries,” wrote Partha Mukhopadhyay, a senior fellow at the Center for Policy Research in Delhi, last week.
What’s more, India has flung open eligibility for vaccines without a concomitant increase in supply. Last month, the government announced that everyone 18 and older — a population of roughly 950 million — would become eligible for inoculation.


The move was accompanied by a major policy shift. Half of the vaccine supply is being reserved for the national government and will go toward vaccinating people 45 and older. The other half would be sold at higher prices to state authorities and private players to vaccinate people younger than 45.
The result has been acute shortages and supply breakdowns that have led several states to suspend altogether the vaccination drive for people younger than 45. In Delhi, city authorities shut down certain vaccination centers after their supply of Covaxin, the vaccine produced by Bharat Biotech, ran out.
Manish Sisodia, a senior Delhi official, made public a letter from Bharat Biotech chief executive Krishna Ella in which he wrote that the company was unable to provide additional supplies to the city. “We are unable to keep up with demand,” Ella wrote. Spokespeople for Bharat Biotech did not respond to requests for comment.
The government is “splitting up the same amount of available vaccines” into two different procurement streams, with no clarity about how Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech are allocating the doses, said T.S. Singh Deo, the health minister of the state of Chhattisgarh. “This is not an acceptable or healthy situation.”
Frantic for supplies, nine Indian states and two cities — Delhi and Mumbai — have said they will attempt to buy vaccines directly from global manufacturers, pitting them against each other in the international market. K. Sujatha Rao, a former top official in the Health Ministry, called the situation “totally unprecedented” and “bizarre.”
The Washington Post spoke with health officials in three Indian states who said the major constraint on vaccinations was supply.
In the northern state of Punjab, about 100,000 vaccinations were taking place each day a month ago, said Rajesh Bhaskar, a state health official. Now that figure has fallen by about half, he said. The cause is a supply crunch both in the vaccines being provided by the central government and those the state is procuring by itself, he said.
“We are facing a quite acute shortage,” added Bijay Panigrahi, a health official in the eastern state of Odisha. Except for the lack of supply, the other logistics were going smoothly, he said.
For many Indians younger than 45, the joy of being eligible for a vaccine has given way to intense frustration. Obtaining an available slot for that age group on the government’s vaccination website is difficult or impossible. People in cities have traveled long distances to receive shots in rural areas, sometimes to the ire of local residents.
Paul, the senior Indian health official, told reporters last week that the country had a large supply in the pipeline from multiple local vaccine manufacturers, with as many as 2 billion doses potentially available from August through December. Experts, however, say such projections are optimistic. (It will be “a miracle” if that target is reached, the vaccine executive said). India is also in talks with Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, Paul said, but the three have indicated that they will not have supplies available for several months.
The government is rushing to ramp up production, but it “underestimated the magnitude of this crisis,” said Balasubramaniam, the former vaccine executive. “In a situation like this, you cannot afford to be optimistic.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/05/17/india-coronavirus-vaccines-supply/


#84
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 20.05.2021
Заглавие: Russia’s Putin gets his Sputnik V booster shot and takes part in testing of a nasal vaccine spray


By Robyn Dixon10:15 a.m.
Russian President Vladimir Putin attends a cabinet meeting on Nov. 24 via video conference in the Bocharov Ruchei residence in the Russian Black Sea resort of Sochi. (Mikhail Metzel/AP)
MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin took part in the testing of a new, nasal form of Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine, several days after getting a booster shot following a fall in his antibody levels.
Putin told a video meeting of government ministers Wednesday that he was revaccinated with a booster several days ago.
He decided to take the nasal powder after meeting Sunday with Denis Logunov, the deputy director of the research center that developed Sputnik, Gamaleya National Research Center for Epidemiology and Microbiology.
Unlike some world leaders, Putin prefers not to be filmed or photographed getting his vaccine shots, and the administering of the nasal spray also was not filmed or photographed. But Sunday’s meeting appeared to be an effort to boost Russia’s flagging vaccination levels, with the country in the midst of a crippling fourth pandemic wave.
Logunov told Putin it was important to be revaccinated six to eight months after being initially vaccinated, adding that a nasal vaccine being tested gave extra protection.
“This is an experiment so far?” Putin asked in the meeting Sunday, and Logunov responded that it was.
“Can I take part in this experiment?” Putin said.
“Of course, Mr. President.”
Putin said Wednesday that Logunov administered a powder in both his nostrils using a syringe and told him to breathe in deeply.
“Then I sat for some 15 minutes, and that’s all. Frankly speaking, I didn’t feel anything. Nothing at all,” he added. “After these two procedures, the shot and the nasal form, I exercised this morning,” Putin said.
Russia plans to market the nasal Sputnik V spray next year, according to Kirill Dmitriev, the head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, which is in charge of marketing the vaccine.
Just over 37 percent of Russians have been fully vaccinated against the virus that causes covid-19, according to Our World in Data. It is one of the lowest rates globally, with trust in the vaccine remaining stubbornly weak. Russia also faces a widespread problem of people obtaining fake vaccination certificates.
Russia reported 33,558 new coronavirus infections Wednesday and 1,240 deaths, close to the record on Friday of 1,254 deaths.
Russia has recorded a total of 9,434,393 coronavirus infections and 267,819 deaths, although analysts say that the actual number of deaths is likely to be more than 700,000, judging by excess-mortality statistics.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2021/05/20/coronavirus-covid-live-updates-us/
#85
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 21.05.2021
Заглавие: Some tiny countries hope for a big boost from vaccine tourism


Landlocked San Marino hopes that its surplus vaccine supply will be an enticing draw for tourists. (Davide Bertuccio for The Washington Post)
By Antonia Noori Farzan
May 21, 2021 at 11:41 a.m. EDT
Book a three-night hotel stay in the European microstate of San Marino, and your room could come with a bonus amenity: A coronavirus vaccine.
The landlocked republic, which has vaccinated roughly three-quarters of its population, now hopes to lure tourists by offering them doses of the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine. While the vaccine’s two doses will cost only 50 euros (roughly $61), recipients must book a second visit to San Marino several weeks later for the second dose, and once again stay at a hotel for a minimum of three nights.
The plan has “a real possibility to attract a kind of tourism that none of us would have ever before thought possible to attract,” Foreign Minister Luca Beccari said at a news conference last week.
The Maldives, another small country with a high vaccination rate and a tourism-dependent economy, has plans for a similar campaign. And while wealthy “vaccine tourists” once faced criticism for crossing international borders in search of a shot, a growing number of nations that are awash in coronavirus vaccine supplies have indicated that they’ll gladly share their surplus doses with anyone who can get on a plane.
Advertisement
In the United States, Alaska Gov. Mike Dunleavy (R) has offered free vaccines to any tourists who fly into one of the state’s major airports this summer. The border city of Laredo, Tex., which was already a destination for vaccine seekers from Mexico, is hoping to welcome more of those travelers and even add another direct flight from Mexico City.
Earlier this spring, international travelers rushed to book trips to Serbia, which had an oversupply of vaccine doses and invited foreigners to sign up for appointments. Although that option is no longer available, global travel agencies have started offering package tours of Russia, which dispenses its Sputnik V vaccine to travelers willing to spend three days in the country afterward, so that their reaction can be monitored, and return again the next month for the second dose.
Some countries, including Zimbabwe, have stated that they won’t turn away any foreigners who show up in search of surplus vaccine doses and are willing to pay. But the Maldives and San Marino are going a step further by explicitly pitching themselves as destinations for vaccine tourism.
Abdulla Mausoom, the Maldives’ minister of tourism, told CNBC in April that the Indian Ocean archipelago is already popular with wealthy executives who are able to work remotely. He hopes that visitors will stay long enough to get both their first and second coronavirus vaccine shots on the same trip, boosting the tourism sector, which is the source of roughly 67 percent of the island nation’s gross domestic product.
But vaccine seekers can’t pack their bags yet, because the government of the Maldives has made clear that it plans to vaccinate all its citizens first. Currently, more than 56 percent of the population has received an initial shot, but only about 28 percent are fully vaccinated.
In San Marino, which began offering doses to visitors this week, officials expect to have vaccinated nearly all eligible residents by the end of May. Roughly 1,000 to 2,000 doses should be left over, Beccari told The Washington Post, but the government will consider purchasing additional supplies so that it can keep providing vaccines to tourists throughout the summer if the service proves popular.
Like many of its European neighbors, San Marino saw its tourism revenue plummet over the past year. But since the nation of roughly 34,000 is not part of the European Union, it does not have access to the bloc’s recovery fund. The decision to try to lure tourists with vaccines, Beccari said, came from “the need to boost a sector that is suffering.”
Four friends from Latvia who drove 26 hours in a camper van became the first foreign tourists to take advantage of the scheme on Tuesday, the Guardian reported. After getting a vaccine dose, they toured a historic castle and did some tax-free shopping. More than three dozen other visitors are expected to get their shots in the next few days.
Notably, the offer is not open to citizens of Italy, which surrounds San Marino on all sides. The two nations have been at odds since San Marino’s plan to rely on Italy for its vaccine supply became bogged down by bureaucratic delays, prompting the micronation to strike out on its own and make a deal with Russia.
Since then, frustration has grown as San Marino’s vaccine rollout rapidly outpaces Italy’s. A separate program that will allow cross-border workers who live in Italy to be vaccinated in San Marino has been proposed, Beccari said this week.
Some of the first tourists to claim vaccine slots in San Marino are coming from the United States and United Arab Emirates, where vaccines are readily available, suggesting that they may have been motivated by novelty rather than scarcity. But the notion of vaccine tourism tends to be fraught, since it guarantees that people with the time and money to travel will have an easier time accessing vaccines.
Wealthy Latin American elites have flocked to Florida, Texas and other U.S. states where vaccine hesitancy is now a larger challenge than vaccine shortages, creating some discomfort among officials who would rather see excess doses sent to countries where they’re needed so that low-income residents can benefit too.
 “Vaccine tourism is not the solution,” Carissa Etienne, director of the Pan American Health Organization, said at a news conference last week. “Vaccines can make the difference between life and death and should not be a privilege of rich countries or wealthy people, but a right of everyone.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/05/21/vaccine-tourism-san-marino-maldives/


#86
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 22.05.2021
Заглавие: 101 Kremlin warns that ‘discrimination will become inevitable’ for unvaccinated Russians


By Jennifer Hassan
and Kim Bellware
May 22, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. EDT
By Miriam Berger7:52 p.m.
As new coronavirus cases have spiked in Russia alongside a sluggish vaccine rollout, the Kremlin has started to change its tone.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday warned that infection rates are worsening in some regions, a shift in messaging after repeatedly downplaying the severity of the latest wave.
And on Tuesday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov cautioned that Russians who remain unvaccinated could face discrimination in the workplace going forward.
“The reality is such that discrimination will become inevitable,” he said, according to Russia’s Interfax news agency. “People without immunity, unvaccinated people, won’t be able to work in all spheres. It’s impossible, as it’ll pose a threat to other people.”
Peskov also called on the responsible authorities to further investigate claims of discriminatory treatment.
“The virus has been behaving so unusually that, one way or another, those who have not been vaccinated and those who don’t have antibodies, i.e., don’t have immunity, will end up at a disadvantage compared to those who have acquired immunity either by recovering from the disease or by getting vaccinated,” he added. “This is our current reality, and we’ll have to live in this reality for the foreseeable future.”
Authorities in several regions of Russia have made coronavirus vaccination mandatory for some workers in sectors such as education, retail and service industries. Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin has been one of the most vocal proponents of this approach. The Kremlin has, until now, repeatedly rejected the idea.
Russia, which developed the Sputnik V vaccine, has inoculated about 12 percent of its population, according to Reuters.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2021/06/22/coronavirus-covid-live-updates-us/


#87
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 25.05.2021
Заглавие: Latin America crosses a bleak milestone


By Ishaan Tharoor
Columnist
May 25, 2021 at 12:01 a.m. EDT


You’re reading an excerpt from the Today’s WorldView newsletter. Sign up to get the rest, including news from around the globe, interesting ideas and opinions to know, sent to your inbox every weekday.


People gather near a shrine in Rio de Janeiro on Sunday that marks the number of covid-19 deaths. The coronavirus has claimed more than 1 million lives in Latin America and the Caribbean, with nearly half of those deaths in Brazil. (Mario Tama/Getty Images)
As of Friday, the coronavirus-related death toll in Latin America and the Caribbean surpassed 1 million people, according to the U.N. Pan American Health Organization. Almost 90 percent of these deaths took place in five major countries in the region — Brazil (around 44 percent), Mexico (22 percent), Colombia (8 percent), Argentina (7 percent) and Peru (nearly 7 percent). In some of these countries, the official number of coronavirus deaths may be only a fraction of the real total. But the overall trend lines for Latin America have been grim, with its economies ravaged and a paltry number of vaccinations administered.
In the United States, reported coronavirus-related cases and deaths dropped to their lowest levels in nearly a year, while supply for vaccines now seems to outweigh demand, with tens of millions of Americans refusing to get vaccinated even as authorities woo them with promises of free alcohol or cash prizes.
Farther south, though, a third wave of the virus is surging. On average in May, Latin America accounted for more than 31 percent of all worldwide covid-19 deaths, though it has just a bit more than 8 percent of the world’s population. Though rates vary dramatically by nation — Uruguay and Chile have vaccinated significant proportions of their populations, for example — experts say only about 3 percent of the region’s population is fully vaccinated.
“More than one million lives have been cut short because of COVID-19. This is a tragic milestone for everyone in the region,” Carissa Etienne, director of the Pan American Health Organization, said in a statement.
“The progress we’re seeing in the U.S. is a testament to the power of safe and effective COVID vaccines, but it underscores the vital importance of accelerating access to vaccines throughout our region, so that other countries can fully immunize their populations,” she added. “We urgently need more vaccines for Latin America and the Caribbean, a region which has been sorely tested by this pandemic.”
Meanwhile, after more than a decade of steady growth, Latin America saw dramatic economic contraction over the past year. The region’s economy shrank an estimated 7.4 percent, the worst downturn since 1821, when South America was still plunged in its bloody wars of independence from Spain, according to the Inter-American Development Bank’s annual report published in March. More than 100 million children in Latin America may be unable to attend school. Food insecurity is on the rise. In Brazil, 19 million people, or about 1 in every 11 citizens, are going hungry, the Wall Street Journal reported.
“We are going to emerge from this crisis poorer, more indebted, and with economies that will look very different in terms of their productive structures,” wrote Eric Parrado, chief economist at the Inter-American Development Bank.
For now, governments are still wrestling with the viral menace in their midst. There’s no simple answer for what went wrong across the hemisphere. Both poorer and wealthier nations saw spikes in infections. Governments run by center-right technocrats, left-leaning populists and far-right firebrands all were accused of missteps and failures in arresting the virus’s spread. A year ago, tiny Uruguay was seen as a continental exception, a relatively wealthy and well-run nation that offered a model for navigating the pandemic. Now, it has one of the highest coronavirus death rates in the world.
There’s no end in sight for much of the region. In Colombia, weeks of anti-government protests have led officials in various cities to warn about a prolonged peak in coronavirus cases. In Peru, whose economy contracted by more than 11 percent in 2020, the pandemic has led to shortages in cemetery space in various parts of the country. In Brazil, home to the world’s second-largest official covid-19 death toll, polarizing President Jair Bolsonaro was fined last week by local authorities in Maranhao state for violating pandemic restrictions while appearing maskless at a political event.
As a whole, Latin America has been dogged by vaccine supply shortages and slow rollouts. Lacking the manufacturing capacities of major vaccine producers elsewhere, countries in the region were beholden to a global medical supply chain during the pandemic that saw the United States effectively ban the export of certain necessary raw materials and Russia so far deliver fewer of its Sputnik V doses than what it promised to various Latin American governments amid shortfalls of personnel and equipment.
The poorest countries lag furthest behind. “Vaccination rates in the region currently overlap fairly predictably with countries’ national income per capita,” noted Foreign Policy last week. “According to data compiled by Reuters, high-income Chile has given at least one shot to more than 49 percent of its population; upper-middle-income Argentina and Brazil have given more than 18 percent and 17 percent, respectively; and lower-middle-income Nicaragua and Honduras have given more than 2.5 percent and 1 percent, respectively.”
One notable positive trend can be found in Mexico, where critics had lambasted the government for being ill-prepared in the face of a hideous surge in cases earlier this year. On Sunday, though, the country’s Health Ministry reported the lowest daily death toll in over a year.
“Scientists and government officials say the pandemic seems to be abating — at least temporarily — because of increasing levels of immunity on both sides of the U.S.-Mexico border,” wrote my colleague Mary Beth Sheridan last week. “As much as half the Mexican population has developed antibodies because the coronavirus circulated so widely over the past year. In addition, U.S. vaccinations appear to be blocking the southward spread of the virus.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/05/25/latin-america-covid-deaths/


#88
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 26.05.2021
Заглавие: Influencers say they were offered money to discredit the Pfizer vaccine. In France, some suspect Russia is behind it.


By Jennifer Hassan
 and 
Rick Noack
 
May 26, 2021 at 7:39 a.m. EDT
LONDON — Several European influencers say they have been offered money to use their social media presence to discourage their millions of followers from receiving the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine by a suspicious agency that French officials reportedly think could be linked to Russia.
According to the influencers, they were approached online and asked to tell their large followings that the Pfizer vaccine is dangerous and has sparked more deaths than the one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine has been plausibly linked to extremely rare but in some cases fatal blood clots. European and U.S. regulators have not linked the Pfizer vaccine to any such side effects.
Taking to Twitter earlier this week, French YouTuber Léo Grasset — also known as DirtyBiology — said he had received a “strange” proposal and attached screenshots of the request, which asked him to falsely tell followers that “the mainstream media ignores” the fact that the vaccine has been linked to a high death toll. The messages informed Grasset that the agency had a “colossal budget” and that if he wanted to work with the company, he would have to hide sponsorship details from viewers.
Russian vaccine Sputnik V is using Twitter to needle and undermine its rivals
“I received a partnership proposal, which consists of damaging the Pfizer vaccine on video,” he said, as he warned social media users that influential personalities were being targeted by conspirators who wanted to create vaccine skepticism.
The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine ― produced by a German and an American company ― has by far been the most frequently administered coronavirus vaccine in France.
The Wall Street Journal reported Tuesday that the disinformation effort had triggered an investigation by French counterintelligence authorities, to examine whether the Russian government orchestrated it.
The French Defense and Health ministries did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Wednesday.
French Health Minister Olivier Véran said in an interview on Tuesday: “I do not know where it comes from, I do not know if it comes from France or from abroad.”
The self proclaimed public relations agency behind the offer goes by the name of Fazze and originally claimed to be based in London — although no record shows it as registered there. On its website, the agency describes itself as an “influencer marketing platform” but does not offer contact details. Its Instagram account is private, a change that was recently made, according to the Guardian.
Grasset later told his Twitter followers that those who had claimed to be employed at the company all had links to Russia, writing that the professional profiles of those in question had since vanished from LinkedIn.
Véran, France’s health minister, slammed the effort on Tuesday, calling it “dangerous” and “irresponsible.” Some influencers had been offered up to $2,450 to publish the posts, according to French media outlets.
The incident has raised concerns about more targeted disinformation campaigns, as vaccinations are finally gaining momentum in Europe and the focus of authorities may soon shift from meeting demand for vaccine shots to persuading holdouts.
France was among the world’s most vaccine-skeptical nations when coronavirus vaccines were rolled out late last year. At the time, about 60 percent of the French were not inclined to get the shots, an Ipsos survey showed.
Hoping to counter skepticism, France’s government has implemented its vaccination campaign more carefully than other countries have, insisting on time-consuming pre-vaccination consultations and a cautious interpretation of vaccine manufacturers’ guidelines.
The return to a degree of normalcy in countries that quickly vaccinated their populations, including Israel, has shifted the public debate in France in recent months. France has now partly vaccinated more than 34 percent of its population, which puts it ahead of some other European countries that had lower rates of vaccine skepticism earlier this year.
But France may remain more vulnerable to targeted disinformation campaigns than some of its neighboring countries. Officials are concerned that the country’s vaccination campaign may slow down earlier than elsewhere, as the number of new cases continues to go down and the urgency of the pandemic is somewhat fading from the public debate.
Speaking to The Washington Post earlier this year, members of France’s pro-vaccine group Les Vaxxeuses said the government has been too slow at actively countering online disinformation campaigns. Anti-vaccine videos have been viewed millions of times on French social media over the past year.
Meanwhile, the absence of an early and effective online government information campaign to dispel doubts meant that “the space was empty, there was no scientific discussion,” a member of the group said earlier this year, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
Other influencers — including German journalist Mirko Drotschmann, who has almost 1.5 million subscribers on YouTube, and artist Sami Ouladitto — said they were targeted with requests to discredit the Pfizer vaccine.
Earlier this month, Drotschmann tweeted he had been asked to join an online “information campaign,” with organizers inviting him to share supposedly leaked documents about deaths after Pfizer-BioNTech vaccinations. He told his followers the chief executive of the company appeared to be based in Moscow, but he did not name the company or people who had contacted him.
Although it is being used in multiple countries, Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine has yet to receive approval from the European Union’s medicines agency, which officials say is the result of a lack of adequate information. Last month, Brazil’s Health Regulatory Agency rejected the vaccine, listing significant safety concerns that include a lack of quality control and an absence of details regarding the vaccine’s side effects.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Russia was willing to give Brazil additional data if required.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/05/26/influencers-offered-money-pfizer-discredit-russia/


#89
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 29.05.2021
Заглавие: Vietnam detects highly contagious new coronavirus variant as infections surge


Variant is a mix of coronavirus strains first detected in the United Kingdom and India, country’s health minister says
A man sits behind a barrier inside a quarantine area in Hanoi on May 26. (Luong Thai Linh/EPA-EFE/REX/Shutterstock)
By Katerina Ang
May 29, 2021 at 8:26 a.m. EDT
1019
Vietnam’s Health Ministry announced Saturday that it had detected a highly transmissible new variant of the coronavirus that has helped fuel a recent wave of infections in the country.
Genetic sequencing indicated that the new variant was a mix of the coronavirus strains first detected in the United Kingdom and India, said Health Minister Nguyen Thanh Long, according to the VnExpress newspaper.
FAQ: What to know about the omicron variant of the coronavirus
The minister said the new variant was particularly contagious via air and viral cultures have revealed it replicates extremely quickly, the newspaper reported.
“The new variant is very dangerous,” Long said in a statement.
The Health Ministry didn’t return a Saturday afternoon request for comment.
Scientists said further study was needed to determine the effect of a variant in “real-world settings.”
“A lot of different mutations happen as the virus is transmitted and most of them are not of clinical significance,” said Todd Pollack, a Hanoi-based infectious-disease expert for Harvard Medical School. “Just because they say [the new variant] has features of one and the other … doesn’t mean they got together in one patient and spit out some combined hybrid ‘supervirus.’ ”
As new variants of coronavirus continue to be discovered, here's what you need to know about how these mutations work and how they spread. (The Washington Post)
There were seven known coronavirus variants in Vietnam before Long’s announcement, according to Reuters.
Vietnam, which has reported around 6,400 coronavirus infections and 47 deaths, has been one of the world’s coronavirus containment success stories. A well-run public health-care system, quarantine camps operated by the military and strict, targeted lockdowns kept case numbers low until late April, when a spike in infections began.
Many of the recent infections were detected in two industrialized provinces in northern Vietnam, where factory employees often work in proximity. Plants there that manufacture for such global brands as Apple have implemented social distancing measures, Reuters reported. Such factories are key to Vietnam’s export sector, which has boomed amid trade tensions between the United States and China.
Restrictions are also in place in Hanoi, the capital, and Ho Chi Minh City, the country’s economic hub.
Singapore and Taiwan, which had effectively eliminated transmission of the coronavirus at the start of the year, recently reintroduced curbs as infections return.
Many countries that managed the pandemic with “non-pharmaceutical interventions are finding that more transmissible variants are more difficult to control with these measures,” Pollack said. “This is the biggest challenge that [Vietnam is] facing since covid-19 came onto the scene.”
Vietnam is operating one of the slower inoculation programs in the world, with fewer than 0.1 percent of its 103 million residents having been fully vaccinated as of Friday. It has approved the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Sputnik V shots and recently signed a deal to buy more than 30 million Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine doses. Vietnam is also developing its own Nanocovax vaccine, whose final-stage trials are set for completion in the second half of the year.
Hanoi has a rocky relationship with Beijing and, unlike many other middle income nations, it has not approved the use of Chinese-developed vaccines.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/05/29/vietnam-hybrid-variant-covid-virus/


#90
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 05.06.2021
Заглавие: Putin’s daughter steps into the spotlight. But no one will acknowledge she’s Putin’s daughter.






Katerina Tikhonova, deputy director of the Institute for Mathematical Research of Complex Systems at Moscow State University and one of the widely acknowledged daughters of Russian President Vladimir Putin, is seen on screens as she participates in the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum on June 4. (Evgenia Novozhenina/Reuters)
By Isabelle Khurshudyan and Mary Ilyushina 
June 5, 2021 at 7:45 a.m. EDT


ST. PETERSBURG — Russia's premier business conference featured a panelist, Katerina Tikhonova, who was identified as the deputy director for the Institute for Mathematical Research of Complex Systems at Moscow State University.


One significant detail was left out: She’s widely acknowledged outside official circles as President Vladimir Putin’s daughter.


The Russian leader has never publicly identified his children other than to say he has two daughters. That makes for an odd wink-and-nod scenario every time they appear. Everyone knows they are Putin’s children, but few dare say so and go against Kremlin policy.


This dance could become increasingly tricky, however. Tikhonova and Putin’s other media-cited daughter, genetics researcher Maria Vorontsova, have gradually boosted their public profiles.


They’re not directly involved in politics, but they hold influential positions in businesses that have close ties to state enterprises.


The 34-year-old Tikhonova spoke at a session about litigating international investment disputes via video link at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, Russia’s answer to the annual business conference in Davos, Switzerland.


She was broadcast on big screens above a roundtable that featured members Russia’s elite: heads of Russia’s top universities; Russia’s justice minister; and the head of the country’s sovereign wealth fund, Kirill Dmitriev.


Her relationship to Putin was not mentioned at any time. The only hint was the moderator’s formal reference to her by her first name and patronymic: Katerina Vladimirovna.


Putin’s ex-wife returns to the spotlight with a dashing young husband and a fancy French villa


Putin has long preferred intense secrecy when it comes to his family. He had never confirmed the identities of his daughters, even though they have been reported by Russian independent and foreign media outlets. But their status and growing influence in Russia’s scientific and business communities are undeniable.




Both Tikhonova and Vorontsova are the daughters of Lyudmila Putin, who was married to Putin for three decades before they divorced in 2013. She stays out of the spotlight and resides in France. (The Russian investigative news outlet Proekt reported that Putin has a “secret” third daughter, a teenager who he fathered with a lover, but the girl’s relationship with Putin has not been clearly established.)


Since 2018, both of his alleged daughters — Vorontsova has been reported to be the eldest — have been appearing on state television in special reports about their respective projects. (Vorontsova is involved in state-funded projects dealing with genetics.) The channels have mentioned their connection to Putin.


The approach runs counter to other countries, where the children of world leaders often are in the spotlight. Former president Donald Trump’s children had influential roles in his campaign and administration. President Biden’s son Hunter became a top target for Trump and his allies during the 2020 presidential campaign.


Biden previews tough talk with Putin at Memorial Day event
At a ceremony in Delaware on May 30, President Biden said he plans to tell Russian leader Vladimir Putin the United States won’t “let him abuse” human rights. (The Washington Post)
In a six-minute speech at Friday’s panel, Tikhonova advocated for increased investment in what she called “breakthrough technologies,” alluding to her other project, the Innopraktika Fund, which says its mission is to find business applications for complex scientific developments. Members of its board include heads of Russia’s key state oil and gas enterprises.


When Tikhonova was giving her closing remarks, moderator Nikolay Kropachev, the dean of St. Petersburg State University, interjected with a joke, only to be quietly shushed by the justice minister, who told him not to interrupt her.


Putin rarely even makes vague references to his children. An exception was last year, when, in announcing the approval of Russia’s first approved coronavirus vaccine, Sputnik V, Putin said one of his daughters had taken the vaccine herself. He didn’t refer to her by name.


Alexei Venediktov, editor in chief of the Echo of Moscow radio station, said at the time that Putin was referencing Tikhonova, who has close ties to the vaccine’s chief lobbyist, Dmitriev. Tikhonova and Dmitriev’s wife, Natalia Popova, work at the Innopraktika Fund together and were university classmates.


Popova was among the first to be vaccinated with Sputnik V, according to a state television report, and got Tikhonova interested in the jab, Russia’s independent Open Media outlet said. That might have helped secure Putin’s support for it.


Influencers say they were offered money to discredit the Pfizer vaccine. In France, some suspect Russia is behind it.


Putin has dodged questions about the identity of his daughters in years past, citing security concerns. They were both born in the 1980s, when Putin was a KGB spy.


In 2015, at his annual end-of-year marathon news conference, Putin was asked about the truthfulness of a Reuters news agency report that Tikhonova is his daughter. He did not confirm it, but said his daughters “are not involved in business or politics.”


“My daughters live in Russia and studied only in Russia. I am proud of them,” he said. “They speak three foreign languages fluently. I never discuss my family with anyone.”


He added: “Every person has a right for their fate, they live their own life and do it with dignity.”


Then, in 2019, at that year’s end-of-year news conference, Putin was again asked about the identity of his daughters. BBC Russia reporter Farida Rustamova told Putin that both Tikhonova and Vorontsova had become more involved in Russia’s business scene, and his dodge in 2015 no longer applied.


“Your old friends, managers of state companies, are helping these two women with their business operations,” Rustamova said. “We can see that television channels have started showing them very often. Everyone knows them and what they look like today. This is an open secret.”


“Here is my question,” she continued. “Tell me, please, when will you admit that they are your children, and when will they open themselves to society, just like the children of other world leaders?”


Putin again did not utter the name of either woman.


“You just asked a question, related to business. You mentioned one woman, you mentioned another,” he said. “You just stated some facts. That’s not enough. Dig around a bit more, and you’ll understand what business they have and whether they have any at all and who owns what and who helps whom.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/putin-daughter-russia-secret/2021/06/05/a5524c98-c2eb-11eb-89a4-b7ae22aa193e_story.html




#91
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 27.06.2021
Заглавие: Now booming on Moscow’s black market: Fake vaccine certificates






June 27, 2021 at 6:50 p.m. EDT


MOSCOW — It took just a few hours for fraudsters to act after Moscow's mayor announced this month that coronavirus vaccinations were compulsory for most of the city's service sector employees.


Accounts advertising the availability of fake coronavirus vaccination certificates suddenly appeared as social media followers of Russians who identified as working in restaurants or bars.


A new black market was born with a deep potential clientele: the many Russians still hesitant to be vaccinated even amid a surge in coronavirus cases.


One bartender, who provided The Washington Post with a copy of his private messages on Instagram, sent a query to one account about the cost of a fraudulent vaccination certificate.


The response was immediate: The price was the equivalent of about $25, and the bartender just needed to provide his personal information. The bartender spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss engaging in an illegal operation.


The increase in the number of people selling bogus vaccination certificates comes as Moscow has ordered 60 percent of workers who interact with the public — teachers, taxi drivers, salespeople and others — to get vaccinated or get different jobs. Their employers are subject to hefty fines for noncompliance.


The new rules, which take effect Monday, also require that restaurants and bars limit admission to people with a QR code confirming their vaccination or proof of a negative PCR coronavirus test within the previous three days. Moscow authorities have further warned that hospitals will deny routine medical care to the unvaccinated.


A vaccination certificate on Gosuslugi, Russia’s public services portal, in Moscow on June 21. Police have cracked down on the selling of fake coronavirus vaccination certificates amid the mayor’s announcements of compulsory shots for service sector workers. (Alexander Zemlianichenko/AP)
The extraordinary measures — Moscow now has among the strictest vaccine rules — flow from Russia’s inability to gets its arms around the pandemic despite two homegrown vaccines, led by Sputnik V, that are widely available and free. Russia’s latest coronavirus wave also shows how vaccine hesitancy threatens to prolong the pandemic worldwide.


Should a coronavirus vaccine be mandatory? In Brazil’s most populous state, it will be.


Just 15 percent of Muscovites had been vaccinated, Mayor Sergei Sobyanin said on June 16. The vaccine rate for all of Russia is lower at 11.5 percent — lower than anywhere else in Europe except North Macedonia, according to Our World in Data. The United States has fully vaccinated more than 45 percent of its population.


But Moscow’s push to vaccinate its citizens has left many bitter.


Some people say they are more fearful of being vaccinated than they are of contracting the coronavirus. That makes buying a fake vaccination certificate an attractive option to try to beat the system.


“I’ve been partying since last summer, and I’ve been interacting with a lot of people, including those who actually had covid-19,” said Anna, a 23-year-old university student who spoke on the condition of only using her surnameto speak candidly about the issue. She had considered buying a false vaccination certificate, then decided against it.


“I didn’t get sick. I don’t have antibodies. So, I just made a conclusion that maybe I’m just not prone to getting it. Why should I get the vaccine if my body works well without it?” she added. “I just don’t trust it that much.”


No vaccine, no vacation
Sobyanin said that about 90 percent of the new Moscow cases are the Delta variant. Infections in the city of about 12 million people have spiked to more than 8,500 per day this month, according to Russia’s coronavirus headquarters, and 114coronavirus-related deaths were reported Sunday in Moscow, a single-day record for the city.


The “explosive growth,” as Sobyanin put it, has led to sweeping new restrictions that will make it nearly impossible for the unvaccinated to work in most places or eat in any restaurants.


More than a dozen regions across Russia have followed Moscow’s lead in imposing some mandatory vaccination standards. Resorts in Sochi, the popular summer destination on the Black Sea, will be closed to unvaccinated vacationers as of Aug. 1.


By mid-June, there were 500 newly registered domain names for selling fake vaccination certificates, according to Forbes. Certificates also are sold on the messaging app Telegram and on Dark Web forums.


Some of the accounts purporting to sell the certificates have been deleted ahead of a promised crackdown by authorities.


Russia unveils coronavirus vaccine ‘Sputnik V,’ claiming breakthrough in global race before completing final testing


Moscow tried to foil counterfeiters by insisting on registering vaccination certificates for QR codes — square bar code mazes of lines and boxes — rather than just a physical document.


A worker from Russia’s emergency situations ministry, center, rides an escalator during a deep-clean operation at Leningradsky Railway Station in Moscow on June 24. (Andrey Rudakov/Bloomberg News)
But, for a higher cost on the black market, even a vaccination certificate purchased illegally can be registered online.


It works like this: The seller of the fake certificate contacts a medical professional with access to vaccine doses, according to a flight attendant who is in the process of obtaining a fake certificate. She spoke on the condition of anonymity to protect her employment.


The medic then pours out a vial of the first dose and attaches the vial’s serial number to the client’s name in the state system, she said. Three weeks later, the same thing happens for the second shot. The vaccine certificate is then ready and is — for all intents and purposes — real.


Anna, the university student, said that while she was thinking about buying a fake vaccination certificate, she’s fearful of getting caught now that the schemes are in the spotlight. Moscow authorities said they launched 24 criminal cases against suspected vendors of fake vaccination certificates and detained several couriers delivering them to clients.


Russia’s Internet regulator, Roskomnadzor, said it shut down 150 webpages and accounts selling phony documents. The Russian Interior Ministry said the average price of a fake certificate was up to $66.


Reluctant Russians
Russia was the first country to authorize a coronavirus vaccine when it approved Sputnik V for mass use last August. But although the vaccine has been authorized by more than 60 countries, 62 percent of Russians polled in April said they would not take the vaccine, according to the Levada Center, an independent polling and research institute. Meanwhile, in a May survey by Levada, 55 percent of Russians who participated said they were not afraid of contracting the coronavirus.


Russian actor Egor Beroev, speaking at a television awards ceremony on Tuesday, wore a yellow star on the lapel of his jacket and compared mandatory vaccinations to Nazi identification marks for Jewish people during World War II.


“Today I woke up in a world where it has become an identification mark: Are you a citizen, or will you live in a reservation? Will you be able to go to venues and events? Will you enjoy all your rights and benefits?” Beroev said. “I have a question: How could we, the descendants of the [World War II] winners, allow this to happen?”


A woman is seen with her mask pulled beneath her chin on a bus in Moscow on Tuesday. She sits next to a window with the message, “Keep fit! Mask and gloves are compulsory equipment of passengers.” (Pavel Golovkin/AP)
A troubled public relations campaign is to blame for Russians’ distrust of vaccines, said Pavel Volchkov, the head of the Genome Engineering Lab at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology.


Russia expected a surge for its Sputnik V vaccine. But many skeptics still stayed away.


He pointed to Russian state television channels highlighting extremely rare adverse reactions for some individuals abroad who received the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines. Though those vaccines are not available in Russia, the news reporting contributed to a fear of all coronavirus vaccines, he said.


Most of Russia’s coronavirus restrictions were lifted a while ago, and the few mandates that remained were rarely enforced. That created an environment in which people lacked the incentive to get vaccinated because they thought the coronavirus had been defeated, said the researcher Sergey Kolesnikov, who studies Russia’s health-care system at the Russian Academy of Sciences.


“I had a wonderful proposal to only sell vodka and tobacco to people who show you the vaccine certificate,” Kolesnikov said. “That’s a joke, of course. But then more than 50 percent of the population would have to get vaccinated.”


'Nihilism'?
“Nihilism” is to blame for the surge in infections, contended Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, who, for a time last year, wore a protective badge called a “virus blocker” — a gadget with chlorine dioxide that purports to help shield against pathogens despite no scientific evidence that it works.


Russian President Vladimir Putin himself has never appeared publicly with a face mask. One missed opportunity to boost trust in the vaccine was the secrecy around his vaccination in March. The 68-year-old Putin said he would get vaccinated, but no photos or videos of his being vaccinated were released. The Kremlin would not reveal even which of the Russian vaccines Putin received.




People mostly without face masks walk in Moscow’s Red Square on June 24. (Alexander Zemlianichenko/AP)
“There’s a trigger, especially among the younger generation here, that if the government says to do something, you need to do the opposite,” said Aleksey Lavrinenko, a 30-year-old Muscovite.


In Russia, sick people often treat themselves. That’s not helping in the coronavirus fight.


Lavrinenko got the Sputnik V vaccine the day after Sobyanin’s mandate, waiting in an hour-long line at a vaccination center in a luxury shopping center on Red Square. Like others, he received a free ice cream cone as a post-vaccination reward.


Moscow also has tried encouraged people to get vaccinated with lotteries for a free car or an apartment.


Lavrinenko said he got the vaccine only because he feared losing his restaurant job without it. Otherwise, he said, he probably would not have taken the shot.


“It seems like the population here is split in half,” he said. “There are people who are saying that, ‘Yes, vaccination is needed.’ And the other half is like, ‘No, we’ll all die from it.’ There are people who just categorically don’t want to do it and won’t.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/moscow-fake-vaccine-coronavirus/2021/06/26/0881e1e4-cf98-11eb-a224-bd59bd22197c_story.html




#92
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 30.06.2021
Заглавие: Putin call-in show: Russians press the president on new coronavirus vaccine rules


June 30, 2021 at 8:53 a.m. EDT
MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin, facing a devastating coronavirus outbreak in the country coupled with widespread vaccine hesitancy, took to national television Wednesday to field concerns from citizens feeling pressured to get their shots.
In an attempt to persuade them, he even revealed new details about his own secretive vaccination and spoke of how people from his "immediate inner circle" had been sick with the virus.
During Putin’s annual “Direct Line” call-in show, in which citizens can submit (largely prescreened) queries for the president, he was pressed by discontented Russians about the rising cost of food, loans for small business, social payments and other domestic issues.
But the hot topic was vaccination, as the event coincided with the recent controversial move by regions across Russia to order 60 percent of workers who interact with the public — teachers, taxi drivers, salespeople and others — to get vaccinated or find different jobs. The call-in show marked Putin’s first extensive comments about the new measures.
Although they make vaccination de facto mandatory for a large swath of the population, Putin said Wednesday that he doesn’t support compulsory inoculation. But after a year in which he and other officials claimed that Russia had handled the pandemic better than other countries and lifted nearly all restrictions, Putin stressed the seriousness of the coronavirus.
“The only way to prevent the pandemic from developing further is vaccination,” he said. “I hope that the prejudices among people will decrease.”
He then made a dig at two Western vaccines — Pfizer-BioNTech and Oxford-AstraZeneca — by claiming that they havethere dangerous side effects. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been plausibly linked to extremely rare but in some cases fatal blood clots. European and U.S. regulators have not linked the Pfizer vaccine to any such side effects.
Influencers say they were offered money to discredit the Pfizer vaccine. In France, some suspect Russia is behind it.
When Moscow announced the new measures on June 16, just 15 percent of Muscovites had been vaccinated, according to Mayor Sergei Sobyanin, despite Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine being widely available and free. The uptake was worse for the rest of the country, at just 11.5 percent.
Just minutes before the call-in show began, Russia announced that it recorded 21,042 new coronavirus cases and a record number of related deaths, 669, in the past day.
Putin was then asked whether he had actually been vaccinated, because there were no photos or video of him getting a shot. He disclosed that he had opted for the Sputnik V vaccine, saying “there wasn’t a single serious side effect.” He added that his daughter was also vaccinated with Sputnik V.
Russia was the first country to authorize a coronavirus vaccine when it approved Sputnik V for mass use in August. But 62 percent of Russians polled in April said they would not receive it, according to the Levada Center, an independent polling and research institute.
Accordingly, the new vaccine rules have divided Russian society. In Moscow, restaurants and bars have been ordered to limit admission to people with a QR code confirming their vaccination or proof of a negative PCR coronavirus test within the previous three days.
“The actions taken by our colleagues in certain regions are aimed at preventing the need for lockdown, when whole enterprises stand idle,” Putin said. “In order to avoid those things, certain regions are carrying out mandatory vaccination of certain categories of citizens.”
Now booming on Moscow’s black market: Fake vaccine certificates
Putin’s “Direct Line” call-in show has been a staple of his more-than 20-year reign — with the exception of last year’s coronavirus-related hiatus. The carefully choreographed show lasted nearly four hours. Russians are invited to send in questions to the president, and the Kremlin said it received about 2 million this year.
The goal is to portray a Putin who is deeply invested in Russians’ lives, tackling even granular issues during the show and then ordering officials to look into them.
“Putin needs this poor population to demonstrate that he is irreplaceable: only he can fix the roof and fix the gas. Other institutions do not work,” analyst Andrei Kolesnikov of the Carnegie Moscow Center wrote on Twitter.
Most of the call-in show focused on domestic issues, but Putin did address Russia’s relations with Ukraine and a recent spat in the Black Sea with a British destroyer, which Putin called a “provocation” by both the Americans and the British.
On June 23, Russia said it used bombs and gunfire as “warning shots” to force the HMS Defender to leave waters it claims off the coast of the annexed Crimean Peninsula. The British denied they were fired on.
Putin said the exchange was monitored by a U.S. reconnaissance plane and it was a test of Russian defenses.
Asked about meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in the future, Putin replied, “Why meet with Zelensky now that he has fully ceded his country to external governance?” He added that Washington, Berlin and Paris decide “on key aspects of Ukraine’s everyday functioning.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/putin-russia-call-show-vaccines/2021/06/30/bc15a082-d67e-11eb-b39f-05a2d776b1f4_story.html


#93
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 04.07.2021
Заглавие: Third Olympian tests positive for coronavirus after arrival in Japan




By Miriam Berger
July 4, 2021 at 9:39 a.m. EDT


A third visiting Olympian tested positive for the coronavirus upon arrival in Japan, the latest challenge for the strict health protocols meant to prevent the virus’s spread ahead of the Tokyo Games set to kick off later this month.


A male rower in his 30s tested positive for the virus after landing at Tokyo’s Haneda airport Saturday night, Takashi Ikeda, an official in Nanto, where Serbia’s athletes are scheduled to train, told Reuters.


The man was sent to a medical facility and the other four members of the rowing team to a separate site, so they will be unlikely to train in Nanto ahead of the Games, Ikeda told Reuters.


Ugandan Olympian tests positive for virus upon arrival in Japan, the first detection as athletes head to Tokyo


All Olympians visiting Japan are required to be tested for the virus before departure and after their arrival. Although being vaccinated is not a requirement, Olympic officials say they expect more than 80 percent of participants to be inoculated against the coronavirus. Once inside Japan, athletes are required to adhere to a litany of health protocols, such as limiting contact to those in their designated social bubble.


Despite the plans on paper, public health experts have warned that the virus is likely to find a way in, given the huge influx of people from all over the world at a time when highly contagious variants are spreading.


Complicating matters, Japan itself has been fighting a surge in cases coupled with low vaccination rates. On Saturday, Tokyo confirmed 716 new covid-19 cases, the highest increase in more than five weeks, according to Reuters.


Facing the delta variant wave with few vaccine doses, African countries suffer — and bristle with anger


In June, two members of Uganda’s Olympic team tested positive after arriving in Japan despite receiving the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. Uganda has been battling its worst outbreak, which scientists say is being fueled by highly infectious variants combined with low vaccination rates and limited hospital resources and health-care access.


Late last month, Japan’s Emperor Naruhito issued a rare statement challenging the insistence of the Japanese government and the International Olympic Committee that the Games, already postponed once because of the pandemic, can be safely held this year.




“His majesty is very worried about the current infection situation of the covid-19 disease,” said Yasuhiko Nishimura, grand steward of the agency, the Kyodo News agency reported.


“I suppose that he is concerned that while there are voices of anxiety among the public, the event may lead to the expansion of infections,” Nishimura said.


Japan’s LGBT community cheers soccer player’s coming out as trans man


Thirty-eight percent of Serbians have received at least one shot of the coronavirus vaccine, according to the Reuters vaccine tracker. The Balkan country offers doses produced by Pfizer-BioNTech, China’s Sinopharm, Oxford-AstraZeneca and Russia’s Sputnik V. It wasn’t immediately clear which of the vaccines the Olympian had received.


Olympic organizers have emphasized that despite the challenges, the Games — scheduled to begin July 23 — will go on. Foreign spectators were banned and a scaled-down number of domestic spectators will be allowed. Only 10,000 fans, or about 50 percent of a venue’s capacity, whichever figure is smaller, will be permitted, though these calculations exclude VIPs and officials, among others.


Japanese officials say more restrictions on the Games could be applied if the number of cases continues to rise.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/07/04/japan-olymics-third-athlete-positive-coronavirus/


#94
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 27.07.2021
Заглавие: Want to skip the vaccine in Russia? You could be suspended from work.




By Robyn Dixon
July 28, 2021 at 4:00 a.m. EDT


MOSCOW — When Russia's flagging vaccination campaign failed to stem a devastating third pandemic wave, authorities dumped the burden on businesses — and warned workers who refused vaccines that they could be suspended without pay.


The strategy reflects officials’ desperation to boost low vaccine rates — about 16 percent — in a country with sufficient supplies of local Sputnik V and other vaccines. But it also points to wider trends globally amid struggles with the delta variant as governments explore mandates that reward the vaccinated and leave the resisters facing consequences.


Many countries are taking first steps on compulsory vaccination in some jobs. France’s Parliament adopted a law Monday requiring the jab among health-care workers. In the United States, the Department of Veterans Affairs announced it would mandate coronavirus vaccines for its front-line workers, becoming the first federal agency to make the order.


Russia, however, appears to be pressing faster and harder than many nations to tie the vaccine to getting a paycheck.


In Moscow, several hundred people protested mandatory vaccines Monday at a communist-led rally. Similar demonstrations have been mounted recently in places including Greece, India and France.


Russian authorities appear squarely behind the measures that have taken shape in recent weeks: threats of harsh punishments for employers in retail and service businesses, such as transportation and restaurants, that fail to have at least 60 percent of their workers vaccinated, and of suspension for workers who refuse vaccines.


After the Tajik president’s sister died of covid, her sons beat up the country’s top health officials


Many employers, particularly in small and medium-sized business, gripe that Russian authorities have simply passed the buck — handing responsibility for vaccination effort on businesses, when it should belong to the state in a time of growing crisis.


Waitresses work on the veranda of a cafe in Moscow on July 5, 2021. In order to contain the spread of the coronavirus, Moscow's authorities imposed a ban on serving people without QR-codes confirming vaccination. (Yuri Kochetkov/EPA-EFE/Shutterstock)
A surge in the coronavirus — mostly the delta variant — has brought more than 23,000 new cases and almost 800 deaths a day recently.




Although President Vladimir Putin keeps saying vaccines should not be mandatory, the effect for many Russians is just that.


“The not-very-rapid vaccination pace is among the reasons why we have so far been unable to radically contain the spread of the disease,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Tuesday.


A survey by the Moscow-based research and employment agency Superjob on July 21 found 55 percent of Russians were opposed to mandatory vaccination. A survey by the agency July 13, found that 31 percent of Russians were not willing to vaccinated under any circumstances, while 26 percent would only do so if they were forced to as a condition to keep working or get hired.


Other countries have seen strong vaccine resistance for similar reasons: swerves in official messaging and disinformation circulating on social media.


Russians’ long-standing mistrust of authorities may also play a role. From the beginning of the pandemic, most Russians were distrustful of state statistics on the pandemic, according to polls in March and April by the independent Levada Center and Higher School of Economics.


People wait at a vaccination center with the slogan “vaccination is the only effective protection against coronavirus” in Moscow’s Luzhniki Olympic Complex on July 8, 2021. (Alexander Zemlianichenko/AP)
In late June, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin ordered employers in key service and retail industries to ensure at least 60 percent of staff were fully vaccinated by mid-August, and dozens of other provinces followed suit. At that time, 11 percent of Russians had been vaccinated with two shots, according to official figures, even though Russian vaccines are free and have long been widely available.


Now, 16 percent have had two shots, compared with more than 49 percent in the United States and nearly 56 percent in Britain.


Track vaccination rates and coronavirus cases around the world


Retail and service companies who fail to meet the target could be shut down for months or fined. Yet some employers in the taxi and ride-share industry and food outlets have struggled still with low vaccination rates.


Many employers have called on authorities to shift back deadlines or cut the 60 percent target. Some regions have pushed deadlines back.


In other restrictions, some universities have barred unvaccinated students from dormitory accommodation. Dmitry Nesvetov, head of the Moscow branch of small- and medium-sized business association OPORA, said most employers believed the government should be responsible for meeting vaccination targets, not business.


“Of course employers do not think it’s their job. Of course they think that this is the job of the government and authorities,” he said.




Nesvetov said it was extremely difficult for employers to meet the 60 percent target. Those who faced the greatest difficulty were small businesses with fewer than 30 workers.


“You don’t have a lot of tools to convince them or pressure them” to get vaccinated, he said. “You can try to talk to them and explain the consequences. You can use some kind of bonuses or grants to encourage them. Or you can use threats. You can suspend them or send them on vacation without pay, but you cannot fire them.”


France approves law requiring coronavirus health pass for restaurants, other venues


A spokesman for one Moscow ride-share company, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to offer comments critical of the government, said the vaccine deadlines were “really tough,” forcing employers to buy vaccines and set up their own vaccination points.


The spokesman said the government has resorted to “frightening businesses with fines and suspension of activities.”


A woman climbs the stairs to line up for a coronavirus vaccination at Gostiny Dvor, an exhibition center in Moscow, on July 13. The banner at center reads, “We will defeat covid-19 together!” (Alexander Zemlianichenko/AP)
Another ride-share company, Citimobil, said in a statement it had bought 5,000 doses of vaccines for foreign drivers. The company offers prizes to drivers who get vaccinated, including a car raffle.


A human resources manager at one Moscow company said it missed an interim July 22 deadline for 60 percent of employees to have the first shot.


“It’s the middle of the summer and many people are simply on vacation and we can’t make them drop their travel plans and kids and come back to get vaccinated in this time frame,” said the manager who declined to be named. “We hope that the difficulties we had will somehow be taken into account if there are some sort of checks.”


Tokyo reports record for coronavirus infections, but the Games’ bubble holds


She said the company had not yet suspended anyone but would do so next month, if staff refused vaccination for no good reason.


A July 13 survey by Superjob reported that 20 percent of workers knew of someone in their organization who was fired or suspended for refusing the vaccine.


Valeria Slivka, spokeswoman for popular cafe chain Shokoladnitsa, said the company managed to get 76 percent of workers vaccinated.


“Our top management inspired and motivated the staff by their example. The heads got vaccinated, filmed the process on video and shared it on our internal portal, setting a positive example to all employees of the company,” she said.


A major opportunity to allay Russians’ fears was missed when Putin got vaccinated in March, later issuing a brief announcement with no TV video.


According to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Moscow food chains had managed to persuade on average 25 percent of employees to get vaccinated, Kommersant newspaper reported, citing a July 12 government meeting. The Association of Retail Trade Companies which includes major supermarkets, cited problems, including staff shortages caused by leave and low supplies of vaccines in many regions.


Still, many employers decided it was better to do their best to comply with the government demands.


“Even though it’s not great,” said the business group head Nesvetov, “it’s still better than a lockdown.”


Natasha Abbakumova and Mary Ilyushina contributed to this report.


Russian labs race to find a coronavirus vaccine by fall, but concerns raised about fast-track methods


Now booming on Moscow’s black market: Fake vaccine certificates


Should a coronavirus vaccine be mandatory? In Brazil’s most populous state, it will be.




https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/russia-vaccine-rules-putin/2021/07/27/640ea8b6-ebff-11eb-a2ba-3be31d349258_story.html




#95
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 05.08.2021
Заглавие:India’s brutal delta-driven wave ended when cases suddenly plunged. Weeks later, the stubborn variant persists. 


By Niha Masih
and 
Gerry Shih
August 5, 2021 at 6:00 a.m. EDT
NEW DELHI — Earlier this year, a catastrophic surge in coronavirus cases ripped through India, killing tens of thousands in a matter of weeks, before plunging just as sharply. But even as markets reopened and street life resumed, the virus hasn’t faded away.
In parts of India, it might even be inching back.
Just weeks after India regained its footing from its second wave, pockets of sustained transmission nationwide, including in the south, are creating ripples of concern about a resurgence. Fresh daily cases, which have sometimes edged above 40,000 and have been concentrated in the state of Kerala, are highlighting the difficulty in stamping out the highly infectious delta variant even in a country where antibody studies suggest that two-thirds of the population has previous exposure to the virus.
India’s experience with the delta variant, which was responsible for nearly 90 percent of cases in May at the peak of the second wave, offers a preview for other countries, including the United States and China, as they grapple with the stubbornly persistent variant.
In some states in India, the rate of transmission is going “in the wrong direction,” V.K. Paul, a senior health official, told reporters Tuesday. “That shows the virus wishes to expand. We must curb it with all our might.”
Public health experts and government officials have been divided about how severe India’s next surge will be and when it will arrive — if it comes at all. But they largely agree that the coronavirus is likely to continue to dog vulnerable swaths of India, and the world, until at least 80 percent of the population is vaccinated or has acquired antibodies from exposure.
Aggressive testing, contact tracing, cooked meals: How the Indian state of Kerala flattened its coronavirus curve
The country’s genomics surveillance consortium said in July that the delta variant remains the “dominant lineage for new cases” in the country. The variant was first identified in India in 2020.
“We’re going to live with this virus whether we want it or not, because this virus is going to find a way to live with us,” said Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist based in Bangalore at the Public Health Foundation of India. “Vaccination is the only exit strategy for this pandemic.”
Less than 10 percent of India’s population is fully vaccinated, and the country’s vaccine drive is rolling out slower than expected amid hesitancy and production woes.
Now, worrying data is beginning to resurface.
This week, researchers said the basic reproduction number, or R0, in several Indian states rose back to 1 or exceeded 1 for the first time since early May, suggesting that the rate of transmission could be re-accelerating.
The current epicenter is Kerala, a southern state that was hailed globally for its pandemic management in the first wave in 2020. The state accounted for nearly half of the 30,000 cases reported in the country on Tuesday. Neighboring Karnataka and Tamil Nadu states have ordered travelers from Kerala to present negative coronavirus tests at border checkpoints. The other area of concern is the northeast, where at least six states are reporting a positivity rate of more than 10 percent.
The delta variant is continuing to vex health officials and researchers two months after India’s case numbers touched a horrific peak in May of more than 414,000 daily cases, then suddenly dropped and stabilized at about 40,000.
Britain faced a similar drop recently, with new cases plummeting daily for a week even as its public health experts had predicted an exponential surge caused by the variant.
In India, some experts say the sharp decline was a result of Indians staying at home amid harrowing and unprecedented scenes: Entire families were infected, hospitals were overwhelmed. Patients died for want of oxygen, and bodies were cremated in parks and parking lots as crematoriums ran out of space. Others attribute the falloff to the virus exhausting itself; it infected everyone it could.
My whole family was infected in India’s devastating coronavirus surge. Not all survived.
Whatever the reason, the delta variant is lingering in India, while taking root elsewhere. In the United States, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned that the variant spreads as easily as chickenpox and should be treated almost as a novel virus, according to an internal document obtained by The Washington Post.
Epidemiologists say a nationwide seroprevalence survey released in July, which checks blood samples for the presence of coronavirus antibodies, may offer clues about which regions will be susceptible. Two-thirds of the country’s population appeared to have antibodies after the spring wave, the study showed.
Kerala reported 44 percent seropositivity, the lowest among major states, while Maharashtra, a sprawling western state devastated in April, reported about 58 percent.
“Increased mobility from lockdown relaxations combined with the fact that there is a larger susceptible population will lead to more cases,” Rijo John, a health economist based in Kerala, said about the current spike in the state.
As of Tuesday, India had administered 476 million coronavirus vaccine shots, but only 105 million out of a population of nearly 1.4 billion have received both doses, according to government data. Months-long supply shortages continue to mar rollout efforts.
In Tamil Nadu, which neighbors Kerala, Senthil Karuppiah, the head of the coronavirus response at Madurai’s Rajaji Hospital, said that his hospital administered thousands of vaccine doses at its peak earlier this year, but that a constant shortage has lowered that to 500 to 800 per day, which he said is far too few.
“We can definitely do more because this is an emergency,” Karuppiah said. “We could’ve vaccinated all of the southern states in two months if we had the vaccines.”
The Indian government has shared varying numbers about India’s monthly vaccine production. But Bharati Pawar, the junior health minister, told Parliament recently that the “estimated production capacity” for the two locally produced vaccines was 147.5 million per month — much lower than the number of doses needed to achieve its target of vaccinating all adults by the end of the year. Sputnik, the Russian vaccine, is also available in the country in limited quantities.
Another lesson in India’s experience dealing with its delta wave: Infection among children isn’t likely to be severe. That has steered the conversation in India about whether to reopen elementary schools that have been shut for more than 15 months. The state of Punjab resumed in-person classes for all age groups this week.
Rajendra Bhosale, an official in the district of Ahmednagar in Maharashtra, said that in May, nearly 9,000 coronavirus cases were detected among children, or 10 percent of all cases. But the majority of the cases were asymptomatic, he said.
In Karnataka, people younger than 20 accounted for nearly 12 percent of the coronavirus infections in the past five months, a marginal increase from earlier, according to an analysis from the state’s coronavirus data management team. Few deaths were reported.
These numbers are on par with data shared by UNICEF on infection rates among children: Fourteen percent of all coronavirus infections in 103 countries were made up of people younger than 20. The mortality rate for the age group was less than 1 percent.
Ashish Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, who has been following the situation in India closely, said it is difficult to predict when and how the next wave will land. The delta variant appears to be so infectious that another wave can be prevented only if 80 to 90 percent of the population is vaccinated, he estimated.
Hundreds of millions of Indians have not been inoculated, Jha added.
“Much of India is still vulnerable,” he said. “That’s what keeps me awake at night when I think about the coming weeks and months.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/08/05/india-delta-variant/


#96
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 11.08.2021
Заглавие: Millions of coronavirus vaccine doses around the world face expiration




By Adam Taylor and Danielle Paquette 
August 11, 2021 at 11:33 a.m. EDT


For months, a refrigerator at a government facility in the Dutch university town of Leiden has housed 90 or so small white boxes that contain thousands of dollars worth of AstraZeneca vaccine doses. But most of them are emblazoned with six small numbers that will soon render them worthless: 08.2021.


For Dennis Mook-Kanamori, a doctor at Leiden University Medical Center who until recently was administering vaccines there, the upcoming expiration of thousands of doses is tragic. What really incenses him, however, is that the Dutch government is set to let the doses expire rather than send them abroad.


“It’s an elitist, decadent attitude,” Mook-Kanamori said.


The situation is mirrored in countless freezers, refrigerators and backrooms around the world, as millions of coronavirus vaccine doses, developed at record-breaking speeds, march toward expiration before they can be used. And as demand slows in wealthy nations like the Netherlands, more dust is gathering — and more doses are expiring.


Last month, Mook-Kanamori and his colleagues threw away 600 doses. By the end of August, the number is set climb by another 8,000. Unless something changes, by October, all 10,000 or so doses in the refrigerators in Leiden will have been thrown out. Doctors estimate there may be 200,000 AstraZeneca doses in the Netherlands facing a similar fate.


Much of the world has yet to see enough doses to vaccinate even the most vulnerable. Across Africa, as of late last month, only 2.2 percent of people had received at least one dose, while the Netherlands had vaccinated well over half of its population. The Dutch government, which owns the doses, has said that for legal and logistical reasons they cannot be exported, despite criticism from Dutch doctors.


While vaccination programs always have some waste, even standard levels mean mind-boggling numbers of unused doses at the scale of global coronavirus vaccination. But just how many doses have already expired, or are about to, is unclear.


“There is no one who tracks expired doses systematically,” said Prashant Yadav, an expert on health-care supply chains at the Center for Global Development, a think tank. Instead, information has trickled out in news reports and little-publicized official statements.


In Israel, 80,000 expiring Pfizer-BioNTech doses were set to be tossed at the end of July; 73,000 doses from various manufacturers have been disposed of in Poland; and 160,000 Sputnik V doses nearing expiration were returned from Slovakia to Russia, their final status unknown. In the United States, North Carolina alone is estimated to have 800,000 doses soon to expire.


According to data compiled by the World Health Organization, approximately 469,868 doses from various manufacturers had expired in Africa as of Monday. “Most of the vaccines arriving have a very short expiration date,” said Richard Mihigo, coordinator of immunization and vaccine development for the WHO’s Africa arm.


The lack of global data masks the price tag. In the United States alone, estimates of total expired or close-to-expired doses run in the millions. With some vaccines costing as much as $20 a shot, the cost could run into many tens of millions of dollars, if not more.


The toll for human health may be even graver. “The doses we have aren’t enough,” said Lawrence Gostin, global health law professor at Georgetown University. “They’re expiring, they’re spoiling with electrical shortages, they’re not being delivered to the population. It’s a whole catastrophe.”


Why do vaccines expire?
Vaccines often degrade at a higher rate than many other drugs that can be stockpiled, such as Tamiflu, which can be stored for years, according to Jesse Goodman, a professor at the Georgetown School of Medicine and former chief scientist of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.


As doses age, they “might not engender the same immune response,” Goodman said, turning a strong, potentially lifesaving inoculation into a weakened dud. And mRNA vaccines, such as those developed by Pfizer and Moderna, are particularly fragile.


Expiration dates are set by the manufacturer and approved by local regulatory authorities. Many coronavirus vaccines were given initial emergency use authorization when only six months of data was available, resulting in cautiously short expiration dates.


In a statement to The Washington Post, the WHO said that unlike opened-vial wastage, where multi-dose vaccine vials were opened but could not be used before expiration, unopened vial wastage, such as expiry, was “avoidable.” In general, the global health body said, it is recommended to keep all vaccine wastage to below 1 percent.


That may be no easy task. Data compiled by the global vaccine alliance Gavi on non-coronavirus vaccines shows wastage can often hit 10 percent, and sometimes far higher.


Appointment booths stand empty at a vaccination site at Expo Houten, south of Utrecht, Netherlands, on Aug. 4. The location was set to close because of low interest in vaccination appointments. (Sander Koning/ANP/AFP/Getty Images)
Use it or lose it?
Marco Blanker, a doctor in the Dutch town of Zwolle, said he had to throw away 58 doses in one day in the spring due to no-shows amid negative publicity about the AstraZeneca vaccine.


“It was devastating for the team,” he said. “We did all our best in the previous weeks to not have any spillage — we didn’t lose a drop.”


Blanker posted a photograph of the discarded doses on Twitter, sparking a public debate in the Netherlands. Soon other Dutch doctors teamed up to create an app to help redistribute the doses.


Demand in the Netherlands eventually dried up. The country is now 55 percent fully vaccinated and AstraZeneca is only recommended for certain age groups. So Blanker and other doctors such as Mook-Kanamori began looking for other nations that might accept the doses.


Namibia, a West African nation struggling for doses, looked like a good destination. There was even a Dutch doctor who said he was willing to fly them there himself, Mook-Kanamori said. But the Dutch government has stuck to the same position: The doses must be disposed of after they expire.


The Dutch Ministry of Health did not respond to a request for comment. The Netherlands has pledged to donate other vaccine doses, including 75,000 AstraZeneca doses to Namibia.


‘We just didn’t have enough time’
Even when doses do go to those in need, expiration dates can pose problems. Across Africa, most countries have tailored their rollouts around a three-to-four-month delivery window, Mihigo said. But shipping delays have forced some to contend with shorter periods.


Liberia had 15 days to distribute tens of thousands of AstraZeneca shots from the African Union. About 27,000 expired. “We just didn’t have enough time,” said the country’s health minister, Wilhelmina Jallah.


Benin discarded 51,000 doses in July after struggling for three months to deliver them, said Landry Kaucley, the country’s director of vaccine logistics. Fears of the shots lingered after European nations paused rollouts to investigate blood clot risks.


Other countries have gone a step further. In Malawi, the government burned almost 20,000 expired AstraZeneca doses in May, in what local officials said was a move to show the public that they would not receive expired doses. Some health authorities, such as the Palestinian Authority, have refused to accept doses they said were too close to expiration.


Expiration dates can change. The FDA last month extended the expiry for the Johnson & Johnson vaccine in the United States to six months from 4½ months. A representative of the Russian Direct Investment Fund said they expected the expiration of Sputnik V to be increased from six months to one year. Such moves can help claw back doses.


Some experts hope to see Covax, the U.N.-backed vaccine-sharing mechanism, or bilateral deals help move vaccine doses to where they need to be before they expire. But finding a way to share doses is not really the problem, according to doctors like Mook-Kanamori.


“I can get 8,000 shots into an arm in Namibia next week, if there’s a will,” he explained. “The problem is that there is no will.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/08/11/millions-coronavirus-vaccine-doses-around-world-face-expiration/


#97
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 11.08.2021
Заглавие: Facebook bans Russian disinformation network that claimed coronavirus vaccines turn people into chimpanzees


Facebook said it shut down an operation that sought to spread coronavirus vaccine hoaxes. (Olivier Douliery/AFP/Getty Images)
By Rachel Pannett
August 11, 2021 at 3:58 a.m. EDT


Facebook has removed hundreds of accounts it said were part of a disinformation campaign largely run out of Russia that also used social media influencers to peddle fake claims about coronavirus vaccines, including that some shots could turn people into chimpanzees.


Investigators said they traced the origins of the campaign to Fazze, a subsidiary of a U.K.-registered marketing firm whose operations were primarily conducted from Russia. The operation “targeted audiences primarily in India, Latin America and, to a much lesser extent, the United States,” according to a report published Tuesday by the social media company.


Facebook called the anti-vaccine campaign a “disinformation laundromat,” whose efforts spanned Reddit, Medium and Change.org, as well as Facebook and its sister platform Instagram, where fake accounts were said to have amplified disinformation. Influencers on Instagram, YouTube and TikTok were also asked to post misleading content and use certain hashtags, the company said.


The Menlo Park, Calif.-based company banned Fazze because these actions violated Facebook’s policy against foreign interference through “coordinated inauthentic behavior on behalf of a foreign entity,” it said.


Fazze made headlines earlier this year when influencers including French YouTuber Léo Grasset — also known as DirtyBiology — said they had received a proposal from the agency to baselessly claim online that the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is dangerous and more lethal than the Oxford-AstraZeneca shot. That effort reportedly triggered an investigation by French authorities into the potential involvement of the Russian state.


How to spot misinformation, prevent its spread and become more media literate (Lindsey Sitz, Nicole Ellis/The Washington Post)
Fazze and its parent agency, AdNow, didn’t immediately return a request for comment. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in response to past claims of Russian vaccine disinformation that “Russia is not misinforming anyone, Russia proudly talks about its successes and Russia shares its successes regarding the first-ever registered vaccine in the world.”


In May, Facebook said it had uncovered disinformation campaigns in more than 50 countries dating to 2017, when it began cracking down on political actors seeking to manipulate public debate on its platform. The company accused Russia of being the largest producer of disinformation.


Russia is still the biggest player in disinformation, Facebook says


Facebook has banned misinformation about the novel coronavirus, including claims about false cures and misleading representations about the number of covid-linked deaths, from its platform.


In July, President Biden accused the company of “killing people” by allowing the spread of misinformation about coronavirus vaccines. He later softened his criticism, though he still called on Facebook to be more aggressive in combating the problem.


An analysis by the Center for Countering Digital Hate, a nonprofit, of a large sample of anti-vaccine content on Facebook and Twitter found that the majority of the posts could be attributed to just 12 individuals.


Those influencers and others had all significantly increased their followers during the pandemic. Facebook says it has removed more than 18 million posts containing misinformation about covid-19, but it does not share the number of people who have been exposed to such content. That number is likely far greater.


Facebook investigators said the Russian-linked campaign began in November and December last year, when the network allegedly posted memes and comments that falsely claimed the Anglo-Swedish AstraZeneca vaccine could turn people into chimpanzees.


This spring, Fazze allegedly moved to undermine the Pfizer vaccine by posting a purportedly “hacked and leaked” AstraZeneca document that made the misleading claim that the Pfizer shot had a much higher mortality rate than other vaccines, Facebook said.


The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine has been linked in an extremely small number of cases to fatal blood clots. The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, like other shots approved for use in the United States, has undergone vigorous safety testing.


Russian vaccine Sputnik V is using Twitter to needle and undermine its rivals


Facebook said the two waves of the campaign coincided with authorities in Latin America, India and the United States “reportedly discussing the emergency authorizations for these respective vaccines.”


In April, a month before the second tranche of the disinformation campaign, the Russian-developed Sputnik V vaccine took a blow when Brazilian health regulators issued a scathing rebuke and declined to approve the shot. The World Health Organization has not authorized Sputnik V for emergency use, though roughly 70 countries have approved its administration during the pandemic.


Facebook said questions about the anti-vaccine campaign remain, such as who allegedly commissioned Fazze to run it.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/08/11/facebook-russia-disformation-covid-vaccine/


#98
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 25.08.2021
Заглавие: America’s exceptional infighting over the coronavirus






By Aaron Blake
Senior reporter
August 25, 2021 at 11:40 a.m. EDT


The United States entered a new phase in the fight against the coronavirus this week, with the first full approval of a vaccine.


The approval, though, comes at a time when political divides over the vaccines and many other coronavirus-related issues remain as large as ever — if not larger. The White House is now pushing for employers to mandate inoculation with the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, while many high-profile Republicans are not only resisting that but have ratcheted up the battle against a far-less-intrusive mitigation technique: mask mandates.


Polarization is nothing new in the United States, and it has only become worse in recent decades. But it’s worth taking stock of how unusual this internal feuding is over an issue of such national import. There are large protests in other countries such as France over vaccine passes, after all! Maybe we’re not so uniquely divided?


Turns out we are, though — by several metrics.


The Pew Research Center recently conducted a study of how the residents of various countries view their coronavirus restrictions. The takeaway: The political split in the United States is bigger than in any of the 10 other countries surveyed.


While 52 percent of the political right said there should have been fewer restrictions on public activity during the pandemic, just 7 percent of the left said the same.


Percentage of people who say there were too many coronavirus restrictions. (Aaron Blake/Pew Research Center)
That 45-point gap was more than twice as large as in any other country surveyed. And it’s driven by the right; the gap between the center and the right was also more than twice as big as anywhere else. In no other country was the right nearly so unhappy about the restrictions.


That’s particularly striking given that the United States’ restrictions have generally been less severe than those of most other developed countries, according to Oxford University’s government response stringency index. That accounts for almost all countries included in the Pew survey.


The findings echo a similar poll Pew conducted in 13 countries in the summer of 2020. It asked how both supporters and opponents of the party in power viewed their country’s coronavirus response; the gap was again larger in the United States (when the Trump administration was in charge) than anywhere else.


Views of the government's coronavirus response, by country. (Aaron Blake/Pew Research Center)
In every other country, support for the government’s response increased, but not in the United States.


The story is similar on other measures, especially vaccines.


In January, the World Economic Forum commissioned a poll on vaccine hesitancy in 15 countries. At the time, the United States was on the low end, but not terribly out of step. The poll asked people whether they would get the vaccine when it became available to them, and the United States ranked 10th out of 15, at 71 percent. It was still ahead of Japan, South Africa, Russia, France and even Germany.


But this was early in the vaccination efforts, and vaccine hesitancy in the United States has proved unusual for a couple of reasons: Its staying power, and the reasons behind it.


Imperial College London and YouGov have tracked unwillingness to get vaccinated in many countries over time. In February, only France (42 percent) had a higher unwillingness than the United States (33 percent) among the 13 countries included. Their data also showed both Japan and Germany ahead of the United States, unlike the earlier WEF poll (which asked a slightly different question).


And as things progressed, the United States’ vaccine skeptics remained more entrenched. By last month, France still brought up the rear, but it was basically on par (30 percent unwilling) with the United States (29 percent).


The results were similar in another poll conducted of several countries last month. It found the United States with the second-highest vaccine hesitancy race among 15 countries surveyed — lower only than Russia, where hesitancy toward its Sputnik V vaccine traces to a whole lot of relevant history. Hesitancy also declined in the United States by only four points since April, compared with an average of 12 points for the other countries. (Only one country had a smaller decline: the United Kingdom, which has been one of the most pro-vaccine countries from the start.)


Another study released last month in the journal Nature Medicine compared the United States to lower- and middle-income countries. It was again found to be more vaccine resistant than all of them with the exception of Russia.


A big reason for the difference? Unlike in those countries, there was much less concern about becoming seriously ill from the coronavirus. Americans were also less convinced about the vaccines’ effectiveness.


Reasons for vaccine hesitancy, by country (Aaron Blake/Nature Medicine)
That latter reason is a thread worth pulling out. That same WEF poll in January also asked people about their reasons for resisting the vaccines. Fully 11 percent of Americans said they would not get vaccinated because they were against vaccines in general — more than in any other country. Fully 3 in 10 cited either that reason, the vaccines’ supposed lack of effectiveness or the supposedly low risk from the virus. That was the highest of any country.




In other words, even in a survey that at the time showed the United States not hugely out of step with other countries on vaccine hesitancy, there was evidence that its hesitancy might be more difficult to break down. And that has been borne out in the months since.


As have plenty of other splits that have rendered the United States coronavirus response among the most exceptional — in terms of divisions — in the world.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/08/25/us-coronavirus-infighting/


#99
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 01.09.2021
Заглавие: The U.S. and Russia could join forces to get people vaccinated. They did before.


By Yana Demeshko, 
Ruth Gabor, 
Ivan Grekand Kristen Ho
September 1, 2021 at 6:00 a.m. EDT
Despite the deterioration in relations between the United States and Russia, there’s some hope that new forms of “vaccine diplomacy” may once again take hold. The June 2021 summit held in Geneva between President Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin suggests the two countries are open to high-level dialogue.
But, as history shows, much more could be done to strengthen ties in the name of global public health. Decades ago, in the midst of the Cold War, the United States and the Soviet Union worked together in surprising ways to combat polio and smallpox. These collaborative efforts averted millions of deaths around the world.
Until Joseph Stalin’s death in 1953, U.S.-Soviet scientific engagement remained limited, despite rising polio cases in both countries. Then, relations between the Soviet Union and the West improved during Nikita Khrushchev’s “Thaw.” Starting in the mid-1950s, Khrushchev initiated cultural and societal reform, aiming for “peaceful coexistence” with the West and the end of the repressive Stalin era.
The Thaw paved the way for greater collaboration between scientists. Albert B. Sabin was a leading American virologist. He met his Soviet counterpart Mikhail P. Chumakov in 1956, when both scientists made government-approved visits to each other’s countries to cooperate in the fight against polio. They recognized the value of working together because the perceived threat of infectious disease transcended the East-West divide.
Vaccine diplomacy between the United States and the Soviet Union took place amid and despite Cold War tensions. Certain key factors played a role in fostering scientific cooperation during the Khrushchev years. One such factor was the 1958 Lacy-Zarubin Agreement, which encouraged official bilateral exchanges in science, technology, the arts and other areas. This agreement provided crucial structure for public health engagement.
Sabin had developed an oral polio vaccine and sent his virus strains to Chumakov on the other side of the Iron Curtain. Sabin’s live vaccine had the potential to immunize millions of people at a faster rate and lower cost than Jonas Salk’s “killed” vaccine, and a partnership with Chumakov ensured that it would have a lasting global impact. Using Sabin’s strains of the virus, Chumakov produced and then tested the oral vaccine on 10 million children across the Soviet Union in 1959.
In a letter he wrote in December 1959, Chumakov began, “My dear Doctor Sabin,” reflecting the warm personal relationship between the two experts. “I am very glad to tell you that your vaccine has been winning new victories in our country. The number vaccinated is steadily increasing which reflects the simple fact — great advantages of the live oral vaccine over the killed one.” He continued, “The evidence of epidemiologic effectiveness of mass vaccinations keeps accumulating greatly.”
In 1960, approximately 100 million people in the Eastern Bloc, including a whopping 77 million people younger than 20 in the Soviet Union, were vaccinated. Although polio primarily infects children under 5, older children and adults can also contract the disease.
The impact of the collaboration between Sabin and Chumakov extended well beyond the borders of Eastern and Central Europe. For instance, Asian countries, including Japan, received the vaccine from the Soviet Union. In 1962, the oral polio vaccine was federally licensed for use in the United States.
A decade later, when Sabin made the altruistic decision to donate his strains to the World Health Organization, global access to the vaccine increased considerably. By 1984, the vaccine was widely distributed in the United States, the Soviet Union, China and other “temperate-climate countries with a combined total population of almost 2 billion people.” The vaccine was not as prevalent in tropical and subtropical nations. Four years later, the World Health Assembly established the Global Polio Eradication Initiative. This was so successful that today polio is endemic only in two countries: Afghanistan and Pakistan.
This polio campaign was not a one-off collaboration. In the 1960s, the United States provided funding as the Soviet Union developed a freeze-dried smallpox vaccine and prepared 450 million doses for developing countries worldwide. By the late 1970s, thanks in no small part to these efforts, smallpox was considered eradicated. In a relatively short period of time, the United States and the Soviet Union became leaders in the realm of global health, protecting people around the world from infectious diseases.
Today, the history of U.S.-Soviet collaboration in fighting polio and smallpox remains largely forgotten, in part because of rising tensions between the U.S. and Russia in recent years.
In the decades after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the U.S. and Russia have attempted to encourage engagement in the public health realm. In 2009, then-presidents Barack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev created the Bilateral Presidential Commission (BPC) to foster dialogue and enhance cooperation through working groups in key areas of U.S.-Russia relations, including health. Two years later, the two sides even signed a Protocol of Intent on Cooperation for the Global Eradication of Polio, demonstrating that the legacy of polio cooperation exists. But the “reset” between the U.S. and Russia did not last long. In the wake of the Ukraine crisis, the U.S. suspended the BPC in 2014.
When SARS-CoV-2, a new coronavirus, emerged five years later in 2019 and caused a pandemic, relations between the U.S. and Russia were at a low point. Although President Donald Trump personally venerated Putin, Russian interference in both the 2016 and 2020 U.S. presidential elections and the United States’ continued imposition of sanctions against Russia, among other issues, caused tensions to escalate even further. Both countries were unprepared, even unwilling, to put aside their differences to effectively engage in vaccine diplomacy, marking a departure from previous collaborative efforts at the height of the Cold War.
The success of U.S.-Soviet collaboration in the fight against polio in the late 1950s and 1960s stands in stark contrast to the lack of cooperation between the U.S. and Russia in the current coronavirus pandemic. According to the World Health Organization, as of Aug. 31, 2021, the U.S. had a total of 38,666,040 confirmed cases of coronavirus infections and 632,983 deaths, and Russia had 6,918,965 cases and 183,224 deaths.
Despite the pandemic’s devastating impact on both countries and the world at large, bilateral tensions have impeded joint efforts in vaccine development and distribution. Even though Russia has exported its Sputnik V vaccine globally, vaccine hesitancy and shortages have complicated efforts to vaccinate people domestically.
While half of the U.S. population has been fully vaccinated, many Americans still remain vaccine-hesitant, and the U.S. has hindered the global effort to contain the spread of the coronavirus by hoarding vaccines. Beyond the current pandemic, the U.S. and Russia could also work together to develop vaccines against leishmaniasis, West Nile virus and other diseases. In addition, reviving the BPC or creating new frameworks to promote cooperation would follow historical precedent with proven success.
Many people are probably unaware that, against the backdrop of the Cold War, the U.S. and the Soviet Union engaged in vaccine diplomacy and saved millions of lives together.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/outlook/2021/09/01/us-russia-could-join-forces-get-people-vaccinated-they-did-before/






#100
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 14.09.2021
Заглавие: National World Digest: Sept. 14, 2021


September 14, 2021 at 4:28 p.m. EDT


Putin in self-isolation after coronavirus exposure: Russian President Vladimir Putin said he would self-isolate after people close to him tested positive for the coronavirus. The news came from the Kremlin in a transcript of a call between Putin and Tajik President Emomali Rahmon, in which Putin said he would attend a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, planned for later this week in Tajikistan's capital, virtually instead of in person. The Kremlin said Putin is "absolutely healthy" and has not tested positive for the coronavirus. He was vaccinated against the coronavirus in March with his country's Sputnik V.




https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/world-digest-sept-14-2021/2021/09/14/772fe8f8-1565-11ec-9589-31ac3173c2e5_story.html




#101
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 14.09.2021
Заглавие: Vladimir Putin self-isolates after covid exposure but has not tested positive, Kremlin says




September 14, 2021 at 8:26 a.m. EDT


Russian President Vladimir Putin said he will self-isolate after individuals close to him tested positive for the coronavirus.


The news came from the Kremlin in a transcript of a call between Putin and Tajikistan President Emomali Rahmon, where Putin said he will attend a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, planned later this week in the Tajik capital of Dushanbe, virtually instead of in person.


The Kremlin also said Putin is “absolutely healthy” and has so far not tested positive for the coronavirus. The Russian president was vaccinated against the coronavirus in March with his country’s own Sputnik V.


Putin met in person with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad at the Kremlin on Monday. Assad said he and his wife recovered from covid-19 in March.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/09/14/putin-self-isolates-kremlin-says-not-tested-positive-for-coronavirus/




#102
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 16.09.2021
Заглавие: As world leaders gather in New York for U.N. General Assembly, a vaccine mandate creates confusion and dissent




By Ellen Francis and Adam Taylor 
September 16, 2021 at 6:04 p.m. EDT


The debate unfolding around the world over coronavirus vaccine mandates is playing out on a small scale at United Nations headquarters ahead of a meeting of dozens of world leaders in New York next week.


New York City officials have requested that heads of states, and the many diplomats traveling with them, show proof that they are fully vaccinated before entering the U.N. hall for the annual opening of the General Assembly, one of the top diplomatic events of the year.


The request got the backing of the General Assembly’s president, Maldivian Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid. In a statement released on Wednesday, New York Mayor Bill DeBlasio and International Affairs Commissioner Penny Abeywardena thanked U.N. diplomats for working with them on the issue, calling them “true New Yorkers” for helping the city recover.


But not all those diplomats professed the same camaraderie. In a letter to colleagues released on Wednesday, Russian U.N. Ambassador Vasily Nebenzya called the requirements “a clearly discriminatory measure” and said that they were a violation of the U.N. charter.


This Russian opposition to the vaccine requirement prompted harsh words from DeBlasio on Thursday, with the New York mayor telling reporters that “if the Russian ambassador is against it, I’m for it” and suggesting that the Russians had “invalidated themselves” by trying to disrupt U.S. elections.


The Russian Mission to the United Nations did not respond to a request for comment.


The news comes amid broader tensions: Experiments with coronavirus mandates in Europe, the United States and elsewhere have created friction as variants spread — and as countries struggle to balance public health restrictions with individual liberties.


New York has started requiring proof of at least one coronavirus shot to allow people into restaurants, gyms, movie theaters and other indoor venues.


But for foreign diplomats, there is a further complication: Countries administer different coronavirus vaccines — including ones that have not been granted emergency use authorization in the United States.


Sputnik V, a vaccine backed by Moscow and widely administered in Russia, does not have approval in the United States and is not on the World Health Organization’s emergency use listing either.


New York officials have announced that they will give out free doses of the single-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine by the U.N. headquarters in Midtown, but it is not approved in all U.N. member states either, though it does have WHO emergency use listing.


Speaking on Thursday, DeBlasio brushed aside these concerns, suggesting that anyone with a “nonapproved” vaccine could get vaccinated again in New York. Speaking of the Russian diplomats, DeBlasio said, “if their vaccine isn’t good enough, then they should go and use one of the other vaccines."


Despite DeBlasio’s comments, officials from both New York City and the U.N. admitted on Thursday that the details about a vaccine mandate were still up in the air. Some U.N. officials bristled at the idea that city officials could infringe upon the U.N.'s carefully crafted extraterritoriality status.


New York officials were "looking forward to seeing how the UN will implement this policy,” Abeywardena, in charge of the city’s international affairs, said in a statement on Thursday.


Stéphane Dujarric, a spokesman for U.N. Secretary General António Guterres, suggested that the United Nations had previously deployed an “honor system” when it came to vaccines and testing for the novel coronavirus, and that they were working with the “sitting President of the General Assembly to continue that honor system in a way that is acceptable for all.”


By the understanding of the United Nations, “the letter from NY City authorities does not specify any vaccine,” Monica Villela Grayley, a spokeswoman for the General Assembly president, wrote in an email.


The pandemic meant that no delegations went to New York last year for what turned into a virtual annual gathering. Next week, however, more than a hundred heads of state, including President Biden and Turkish leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan, plan to attend in person, while others will give video speeches.


Guterres, speaking to Reuters this week, said he expects that most of the officials flying to New York are immunized, but the dispute has also highlighted drastic inequality: While the United States plans to initially offer certain groups of people booster shots, only 2 percent of the world’s 5.7 billion administered doses have reached people in Africa.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/09/16/united-nations-vaccine-mandate-russia/


#103
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 19.09.2021
Заглавие: Jair Bolsonaro, defiantly unvaccinated, will test U.N. General Assembly’s covid ‘honor system’


By Annabelle Timsit
September 19, 2021 at 1:44 p.m. EDT
The United Nations is demanding world leaders arriving in New York for its General Assembly adhere to an “honor system” to attest they are fully vaccinated against the coronavirus.
But that mandate will be tested in the general debate’s very first moments.
Jair Bolsonaro, who contracted the virus last year and as recently as last week said publicly that he does not need to be vaccinated because he has naturally acquired antibodies, is scheduled to kick off the 76th U.N. General Assembly’s general debate on Tuesday.
It’s U.N. tradition that the president of Brazil speaks first — yet the body seems to have little ability or appetite to enforce the mandate if Bolsonaro enters the General Assembly Hall without first getting a shot.
“Everyone who has contracted this virus are vaccinated, even in a way that’s more effective than the vaccine itself. So don’t argue it,” Bolsonaro has said. Brazil has the second-highest covid-19 death toll in the world — behind only the United States — with nearly 590,000 deaths and 37 percent of its population fully vaccinated, according to Our World in Data.


President Biden is set to arrive in New York City on Monday before also giving a speech Tuesday at the opening of the general debate.
A U.N. official familiar with the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about security details, told The Washington Post that it will not bar unvaccinated people from entering its building and participating in U.N.-related events. New York authorities are providing free testing and vaccination and have said foreigners traveling to the city for the event must be vaccinated, but U.N. officials said they did not have the ability to enforce a vaccination mandate.
The United States, which serves as the host annually to the event at the U.N. headquarters, initially tried dissuading as many participants as possible from coming: In a letter sent in August seen by media outlets, the U.S. mission to the United Nations asked those who could to attend virtually to avoid turning the annual gathering into “a super-spreader event.”
More than 100 are expected to show up anyway, spokesman for the U.N. secretary general Stéphane Dujarric de la Rivière told The Post.
Separately, the spokesman said at a news conference that the vaccine “honor system” means that “by swiping a badge to enter the [General Assembly] Hall, delegates attest that they are fully vaccinated, that they have not tested positive for covid-19 in the last 10 days and have no symptoms.”
The pressure is on the United Nations as all New York City residents older than 12 must prove they have had at least one dose of a vaccine to attend large indoor events as of mid-August.
New York Mayor Bill de Blasio (D) said he had told António Guterres, the U.N. secretary general, that this rule does apply to the General Assembly Hall — and the United Nations, while initially reluctant, agreed to align itself with the policy. But some U.N. officials were not pleased with what they saw as an intrusion on the United Nations’ extraterritoriality.
As world leaders gather in New York for U.N. General Assembly, a vaccine mandate creates confusion and dissent
The coronavirus rules at one of the top diplomatic events of the year underscore the vast disparities of the global coronavirus vaccine rollout.
While the United States has a plentiful supply of vaccines, nearly 57 percent of the world has not received any doses, according to Our World in Data.
Here’s just how unequal the global coronavirus vaccine rollout has been
A further complication for world leaders and their teams is the fact that in many countries, the only available vaccines are those that have not been approved by U.S. health authorities, including the ones produced by British-Swedish company AstraZeneca, Chinese companies Sinovac and Sinopharm, and the Serum Institute of India.
These have all been approved for use by the World Health Organization, and New York City allows proof of a vaccine approved by either the WHO or the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
Dujarric, the spokesman, said that “the honor system does not specify which vaccine” and noted that all delegates traveling for the meetings are also subject to health requirements of the U.S. federal government and would also need to show proof of vaccination to enter certain places in New York City, such as restaurants and theaters.
The mandate has already inflamed tensions among some dignitaries. Russian U.N. Ambassador Vasily Nebenzya wrote in a letter last week that the mandate is “clearly discriminatory” and that the “rights of people who can not be vaccinated for medical reasons, status of those who have just recovered from the COVID-19 and have antibodies, rights of people who received vaccines that are not approved by CDC, etc.” should be taken into account. (Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine is not authorized for emergency use by the United States or the WHO.)
When asked about the Russian ambassador’s comment, de Blasio said at a news conference that “if their vaccine isn’t good enough, then they should go and use one of the other vaccines.”
The mayor, referring to clinics offering the single-dose Johnson & Johnson vaccine that the city plans to make available to UNGA attendees, added that “anyone who’s had a nonapproved vaccine can get one of the ones that we’re using here that are effective.”
Others may wish for stronger action. In the case of Bolsonaro, Brazilian author and U.N. Messenger of Peace Paulo Coelho tweeted that it “would be a victory to prevent the delegation of Brazil’s president from entering” the General Assembly Hall if he is not vaccinated.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/09/19/jair-bolsonaro-unga-vaccine-honor-system/


#104
Источник: Washington Times
Дата: 27.09.2021
Заглавие: New U.S. travel rules close door on those fully vaccinated with Russia’s Sputnik V




By Adam Taylor
September 27, 2021 at 8:18 a.m. EDT
The United States announced last week that it would soon open its doors to foreign travelers vaccinated against the coronavirus, loosening restrictions for broad swaths of global visitors for the first time since the pandemic began.
But the new rules, set to take effect in November, appear to also shut out many people who consider themselves to be fully immunized — including millions who have received two doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine.
Hundreds of thousands of Russians could be directly affected. Despite frosty diplomatic relations and limited demand for international travel, roughly 300,000 Russians visited the United States in 2019, the last year for which figures are available, according to the U.S. Travel Association.
More broadly, the U.S. plan is another blow for the manufacturers of Sputnik V, which Moscow has proudly proclaimed as the first coronavirus vaccine to be registered for use. Though the vaccine was intended to be a powerful tool of pandemic diplomacy, its limited acceptance abroad and slow rates of delivery have left it behind not only Western vaccines but also those made by Chinese manufacturers.
Russian vaccine Sputnik V is using Twitter to needle and undermine its rivals
“This is a big problem for Russian travelers and for people in other countries who’ve received Sputnik V,” Judyth Twigg, a professor at Virginia Commonwealth University who tracks public health in Russia, said of the new U.S. rules in an email.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund, the sovereign wealth fund that backed Sputnik V, said in a statement that not only has the vaccine “been approved in 70 countries where over 4 billion people, or over half of the world’s population, live, but its efficacy and safety have been confirmed both during clinical trials and over the course of real-world use in a number of countries.”
“We stand against attempts to politicize the global fight against COVID-19 and discriminate against effective vaccines for short-term political or economic gains,” the statement continued.
The new U.S. plan requires that most noncitizens seeking entry to the United States are vaccinated with shots approved for emergency use either by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or the World Health Organization. That includes vaccines made by Pfizer and Moderna, as well as shots developed by Chinese firms such as Sinopharm and Sinovac.
But Sputnik V, an adenovirus vaccine developed by the Moscow-based Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, has yet to be approved by the WHO. The global health agency this week said that it suspended its review process of the vaccine, citing concerns over the manufacturing practices at production plants inside Russia and whether the vaccine can be consistently produced to the necessary standard.
Speaking at a conference in Vladivostok this month, RDIF head Kirill Dmitriev said that “mutual recognition of vaccines is the issue of this year” and claimed that a “number of ‘Big Pharma’ companies intentionally, as a matter of competitive rivalry, are attempting to restrict Sputnik and absorb markets,” according to Russian news agency Tass.
Unlike other nations, the United States did not have blanket restrictions on travel from Russia before this announcement, meaning all travelers from the country that tested negative for the coronavirus could be allowed into the United States under guidelines by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. That will change in November, just as doors open to millions of travelers from Europe and elsewhere.
The new U.S. rules will not only affect Russians. According to data from the Global Health Innovation Center at Duke University, some 448 million Sputnik V doses have been purchased worldwide, with many going to low-income nations. Some governments have complained of slow deliveries from Russia. The limited options for travel are likely to further criticism of the Russian drug.
“Russia’s squandered an opportunity to use this vaccine as a diplomatic tool,” Twigg said, citing the production issues around Sputnik.
The Russian Embassy in Washington declined to comment on the new U.S. policy.
Sputnik V is not the only vaccine facing risk of being left behind. Neither the FDA nor the WHO have authorized India’s Covaxin, which has seen 560 million doses purchased so far, mostly in India. Those vaccinated with Covaxin may not be allowed to visit the United States in November. There have also been disputes with individual governments not accepting some vaccines, such as Britain’s refusal to fully recognize vaccines administered in many parts of the world.
But for Sputnik V, a vaccine that has taken a brash and sometimes confrontational approach to its rivals, the failure to secure WHO emergency use listing or a similar listing by the European Medicines Agency, an E.U. body, has been a big reputational blow.
Despite the recent suspension of the WHO approval process, RDIF said that “Russia’s Health Ministry is in constant contact with WHO experts on the approval process and we remain confident Sputnik V’s approval by the global health regulator is imminent due to the vaccine’s outstanding track record.”
Some immunization experts have broader fears that the U.S. move and others like it could create two classes of vaccinated people around the world: one that is able to travel freely and the other not. In Russia and other countries, travel firms have already started offering wealthy customers trips abroad, including to places such as Serbia, so that they can get vaccinated with more widely accepted shots.
Alexander Gabuev, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Moscow Center, said that there was a growing frustration among “those with money and power” that their vaccines were not more widely accepted. Some spread “conspiracy theories,” Gabuev said, including one that “everybody envies Russia as the nation that developed the first vaccine” and so Western powers conspired against Sputnik V.
The WHO approval for Chinese vaccines, such as Sinopharm and Sinovac, undercut that message. Though Sputnik V appeared to provide stronger protection than these China-backed vaccines, Russia’s role as a vaccine exporter had been severely limited by production issues and China had emerged as a more reliable partner, Gabuev said.
“The approval of the World Health Organization adds to the credibility of Chinese vaccines as opposed to the Russian vaccines,” he added.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/09/27/us-travellers-sputnik-russia/


#105
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 17.10.2021
Заглавие: Fully vaccinated travelers can come to the U.S. even if their doses are mixed, authorities say 


By Paulina Firozi
October 17, 2021|Updated October 17, 2021 at 8:55 p.m. EDT
International travelers who are fully vaccinated with mixed doses of approved coronavirus vaccines will be allowed into the United States after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention updated its guidance Friday.
FAQ: What to know about the omicron variant of the coronavirus
The White House said U.S. travel restrictions will be lifted Nov. 8 for fully vaccinated international travelers, a policy that will in part require foreign travelers to show proof of vaccination before boarding a flight. According to a Friday update to CDC guidance, individuals will be considered fully vaccinated if they receive vaccines fully- or emergency- approved by the Food and Drug Administration or by the World Health Organization — including combinations of such shots.
That means international travelers will be considered fully vaccinated two weeks after they receive an FDA- or WHO-approved single-dose vaccine, such as the Johnson & Johnson shot, or “any combination of two doses of an FDA approved/authorized or WHO emergency use listed COVID-19 two-dose series,” such as the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.
While the CDC said it has not recommended mixing and matching vaccines, it acknowledged that “use of such strategies (including mixing of mRNA, adenoviral, and mRNA plus adenoviral products) is increasingly common in many countries outside of the United States.”
Can you mix and match vaccines? The Post answered your questions on coronavirus booster shots.
Rep. Brian Higgins (D-N.Y.), whose district along the Canadian border includes Niagara Falls and Buffalo, said the CDC’s guidance was updated after he wrote a letter to CDC Director Rochelle Walensky requesting a clarification on its policies.
“Clarity is needed on which vaccines the United States will accept when the border reopens to all fully vaccinated Canadians,” Higgins wrote Thursday. “Nearly four million Canadians, equivalent to ten percent of their fully vaccinated population, have received mixed doses of the available mRNA COVID-19 vaccines — this includes the AstraZeneca vaccine.”
In an interview Sunday, Higgins told The Washington Post that his office communicated with the CDC before sending the letter, and that the agency indicated that it was “working on it.”
Higgins welcomed the “long-overdue” update but criticized the rollout of the federal government’s travel rules.
“This border should have been open months ago,” he said, adding that “both sides of the border have been hurt economically and have been hurt emotionally and have been hurt in terms of quality of life.”
He said the guidance clarifying which coronavirus vaccines will be allowed is “helpful, but again these are stand-alone issues that have confused people.”
“It was inevitable that the border was going to open at some point,” Higgins said. “All of these issues should have been anticipated and discussed and finalized so both the U.S. and Canadian governments and public health officials can speak with one, clear, concise message. That’s still not happening.”
He also criticized the coronavirus testing requirements for travelers coming into the United States.
Higgins’s office said he would “continue to seek answers to questions related to what the screening process will look like and will advocate for the removal of arduous testing requirements which he views as redundant for the vaccinated and an obstacle to the mutually beneficial binational exchange between Canada and the United States.”
The CDC’s website notes that fully vaccinated air travelers coming into the United States from abroad will be required to have a negative coronavirus test result before boarding a flight into the United States. Those traveling by land do not need to provide a negative test.
The hyper-transmissible delta variant of the coronavirus has left would-be travelers uncertain. The Post spoke to an expert about how to safely make that call. (The Washington Post)
New U.S. travel rules close door on those fully vaccinated with Russia’s Sputnik V
Anthony J. Santella, professor of health administration and policy at the University of New Haven in Connecticut, said the CDC’s guidance allowing mixed vaccine doses “is a smart thing to do if you want to open your doors again.”
“If we’re really serious about being okay with domestic and international travel, we have to be willing to accept that not every country does the same thing and has the same kind of vaccination policy,” he said.
Santella said the CDC’s guidance suggests that U.S. officials are “choosing to accept that these vaccines largely work and that we’ll err on the side of, ‘If you’re vaccinated, regardless of what vaccine it is, you’re welcome here,’ and to let science continue to take its course.”
The updated guidance comes as a U.S. coronavirus surge wanes, though public health experts are bracing for the possibility of a “twindemic” of covid-19 and the flu season.
More than 59,000 people in the United States are hospitalized for treatment of covid-19, according to data tracked by The Post, with coronavirus-related hospitalizations falling 7.5 percent in the past week. There were more than 100,000 new coronavirus cases reported Friday, with new daily reported cases dropping more than 13 percent in the past week.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2021/10/17/cdc-guidance-mixed-vaccine-dose-international-travel/


#106
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 20.10.2021
Заглавие: To combat covid-19 deaths, Putin approves nationwide one-week workplace shutdown


Russian President Vladimir Putin said the shutdown, which will begin at the end of the month, could be pushed up or extended in certain areas, Reuters's Vladimir Soldatkin, Darya Korsunskaya and Gabrielle Tétrault-Farber report. “Authorities across the country have made moves to curb the spread of the virus, reflecting a growing sense of urgency as they confront widespread public reluctance to get injected with the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/10/20/heres-what-ted-cruz-wants-return-unblocking-bidens-nominations/


#107
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 21.10.2021
Заглавие: Moscow prepares for a return to lockdown as covid cases — and deaths — soar


By Isabelle Khurshudyan and Mary Ilyushina 
October 21, 2021 at 9:39 a.m. EDT
MOSCOW — With Russia enduring its worst wave of the coronavirus pandemic, setting grim records in daily cases and deaths, Moscow announced a lockdown Thursday — a move the Kremlin had previously said it would avoid at all costs.
Russia joins other countries grappling with how to reintroduce restrictions after doing away with nearly all of them. Public health experts in Britain, for example, are calling on the government to bring back some restrictions as cases climb despite the country’s high vaccination rate.
Russia — Moscow, in particular — has in the past year regularly introduced measures when new cases have spiked, including a digital pass system for the vaccinated and a curfew for bars and restaurants. But those provisions were often quickly abandoned, in some cases after just a couple of weeks. Mask-wearing compliance throughout the country remains low.
Now booming on Moscow’s black market: Fake vaccine certificates
More importantly, Russia’s vaccination campaign has stalled at just 33 percent, perhaps because authorities have often touted their success in dealing with the pandemic. Analysts have said that has created mixed messages for Russians as to why they even need to get the shots.
A new lockdown in Moscow, the city’s first in more than a year, is the toughest step officials have taken since exiting the last one in June 2020. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said earlier this month that “the introduction of lockdowns is an absolutely undesirable scenario” and encouraged regional authorities to consider other methods of stanching the virus’s spread.
Servicemen from Russia’s Emergencies Ministry wearing protective gear disinfect Moscow’s Belorussky railway station on Oct. 20. (Kirill Kudryavtsev/AFP/Getty Images)
A day after President Vladimir Putin approved a “non-working week” from Oct. 30 to Nov. 7 to keep most office employees at home, the country’s capital went a step further.
Without officially labeling the new restrictions a lockdown, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin announced that from Oct. 28 to Nov. 7, everything — schools, gyms, restaurants and other nonessential businesses — will be closed, with the exception of grocery stores, pharmacies and medical centers. Theaters and museums can continue operating at 50 percent occupancy and with the use of digital codes.
Sobyanin said on his blog that Moscow’s coronavirus situation is “developing according to the worst-case scenario.”
“Let’s take a little rest and help save the lives and health of many people. And then the city can return to normal life,” he said.
No major city in Russia has been in a strict lockdown in more than a year. But after recording another record of 1,036 fatalities from the virus in the past day, Russia’s official death toll of more than 225,000 is by far the highest in Europe. It is also believed to be an undercount.
In Russia, experts are challenging official pandemic figures as too low. They refuse to be silenced.
Independent demographer Alexey Raksha calculated that excess mortality — seen by analysts as the most reliable indicator of coronavirus deaths — has reached around 750,000, he said in a Facebook post. Raksha’s calculation used figures maintained by Rosstat, Russia’s statistical agency, where Raksha used to work.
In nationally televised comments Wednesday, an exasperated Putin encouraged Russians to get vaccinated. Russia has several domestically produced vaccines, but none have yet been approved by the World Health Organization.
Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, said Thursday that “certain technological differences regarding the fullness of the documents and the information provided for our vaccine to be registered” were the reason Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine has yet to be approved by the European Union’s drug regulator, the European Medicines Agency. The EMA is unlikely to approve Sputnik until at least the first quarter of 2022, according to Reuters.
Putin, 69, got vaccinated in March, but there was no video or photo of him getting the shot. He didn’t reveal until June that he had received Sputnik V.
“I ask people close to me, my classmates: ‘Have you been vaccinated?’ ” Putin said Wednesday. “The question to me is: ‘And have you?’ ‘Not yet.’ ‘I will wait for you to be vaccinated.’ Okay, now I am vaccinated. I ask, ‘Have you been vaccinated?’ ‘No.’ ‘Why?’ ‘Oh, I don’t know, I’ll wait.’ It’s strange, people with a good education, with academic degrees. I just don’t get what's going on.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/moscow-covid-lockdown/2021/10/21/42435f3e-3253-11ec-8036-7db255bff176_story.html


#108
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 27.10.2021
Заглавие: Airlines brace for ‘onslaught’ of travelers as U.S. prepares to open its borders


By Bryan Pietsch
October 27, 2021 at 4:26 a.m. EDT
CORRECTION
The World Health Organization has resumed its review of the Sputnik V vaccine, which it had earlier suspended. An earlier version of this story did not indicate that the review process had restarted. The story has been updated.
As the United States prepares to reopen its borders to vaccinated travelers from countries that had previously been subjected to a travel ban, airlines are bracing for an “onslaught of travel all at once,” Delta Air Lines CEO Ed Bastian said Tuesday.
Starting Nov. 8, people from 33 countries that had been barred from entering the United States because of the pandemic will be able to enter if they are fully vaccinated and show proof of negative coronavirus test results. U.S. citizens and permanent residents have been able to enter the United States, but most others were shut out.
Travel ban will end Nov. 8 for international visitors who show proof of vaccination, negative coronavirus test
Airlines will be responsible for verifying travelers’ vaccination statuses. The requirements, according to the White House, include: matching the name and birth date of the traveler to the vaccination record; confirming the record was issued by an “official source” in the country where the vaccine was administered; and ensuring that the traveler has had enough doses and that enough time has elapsed such that the person can be considered fully vaccinated.
The list of extra tasks for the airlines is sure to be a burden — but perhaps a welcome one, as airlines have lost out on revenue from tourists and other travelers who have thus far in the pandemic been unable to come to the United States.
The sudden rush of incoming passengers is “going to be a bit sloppy at first,” Bastian said at a travel conference hosted by the U.S. Travel Association. “There will be lines, unfortunately,” he said.
The U.S. Travel Association, a trade group representing companies in the travel industry, including Delta, welcomed the Biden administration’s plan to allow more travelers into the United States, saying guidance the White House issued Monday “provides much-needed clarity” for companies in the travel industry to plan for the deluge of travelers.
Bastian added that to keep up the demand for travel, airlines will need to make it easy for travelers to determine what the requirements and restrictions are. He said that Delta had developed an app to help travelers navigate the slew of rules.
The new regulations for incoming travelers also affect U.S. citizens entering the country. Unvaccinated U.S. citizens, permanent residents or the “small number of excepted unvaccinated foreign nationals” will, as of Nov. 8, need to be tested within one day of departure. Currently, the United States requires a negative coronavirus test taken within three days of departure. The three-day window will remain in place for vaccinated Americans.
Children under 18 will be exempt from the vaccination requirement, as some countries have yet to allow children to get coronavirus vaccinations. Children ages 2 to 17 will need to show a negative test result for entry — within three days of departure if traveling with a fully vaccinated adult and within one day if traveling alone or with an unvaccinated adult.
The United States will accept people who have been vaccinated with the shots that have been authorized within its borders — vaccines by Moderna, Pfizer-BioNTech and Johnson & Johnson — as well as vaccines approved for emergency use by the World Health Organization, such as those developed by AstraZeneca with Oxford University, as well as by China’s Sinovac. It will also allow people who have received combinations of such shots. However, Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine won’t be included, as it has yet to be approved by the WHO, which suspended its review of the vaccine in September over concerns about production practices but resumed the process in October.
Industry advocates had been pushing the Biden administration for months to lift restrictions, arguing that the United States was lagging behind other countries that had reopened their borders. Although much of Europe was opened to Americans, most Europeans have been unable to travel to the United States.
U.S. travel has rebounded almost to pre-pandemic levels. On Monday, nearly 2 million people passed through security checkpoints operated at U.S. airports, according to data from the Transportation Security Administration. That’s more than double the number of travelers recorded a year prior and about 300,000 less than the same day in 2019.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/travel/2021/10/27/us-travel-ban-lifted-delta-airlines/


#109
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 05.11.2021
Заглавие: As pandemic pounds Ukraine, desperate officials try to scare people into getting the jab


A medical worker in protective gear leaves the intensive care unit in one of the hospitals treating covid-19 patients in Kyiv, Ukraine, on Nov. 2, 2021. (Sergei Supinsky/AFP/Getty Images)
By David L. Stern
November 5, 2021 at 10:15 a.m. EDT
KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s pandemic figures are scary: skyrocketing infections, record deaths and among the lowest vaccination rates in Europe. So officials decided to become scary themselves with an advertising campaign aimed at young people: If you’re unvaccinated, you may die.
“Every day, there’s a new record in deaths,” a voice-over intones in one advertising spot being shown on nearly 30 local television channels. Over images of young people partying, working out and engaging in other everyday activities, different voices echo ideas among young people about their invincibility. “Everything’s fine with my immune system.” “I’m still too young.” “It’ll pass over me.”
But those shots are spliced together with images of young people being put on oxygen and rushed into intensive care. A final shot shows a coffin being lifted.
“You can fool yourself, but not covid,” the final message says.
The ad, and others like it, are a noticeable escalation in the government’s struggle to get the upper hand on the pandemic. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has promised to accelerate the pace of vaccinations after months of a slower approach focused on rolling out the vaccination drive and delivering basic information on the range of vaccines in Ukraine: AstraZeneca, Moderna, Pfizer-BioNTech and Sinovac.
Britain approves world’s first oral covid-19 treatment
“I ask everyone to switch off your social networks and turn on your brains,” Zelensky said in recent comments to reporters. “We must get vaccinated. It’s the only solution.”
Ukraine is experiencing its worst coronavirus wave so far and one of the deadliest in Europe. Daily numbers among the population of around 40 million regularly exceed 20,000 infections and 700 deaths — well beyond the previous major outbreak this spring, when the daily figures were about 15,000 new infections and 500 deaths.
The World Health Organization has placed Ukraine at No. 3 in daily deaths, after the United States and Russia, and in the top 10 in daily infection numbers. On Thursday, the WHO said Europe is again a pandemic hot spot, with a more than 50 percent jump in coronavirus infections in the past month.
Among the countries considered the “most affected,” Johns Hopkins University says, Ukraine has the eighth-highest number of deaths per 100,000 of population.
Hospitals in parts of the country are reporting a shortage of beds, and there has been difficulty meeting the demand for medical oxygen. On Oct. 25, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention moved Ukraine to Level 4, its highest risk category for countries.
Public health officials in Ukraine warn that the situation may worsen, with deaths predicted to surpass 1,000 per day in the coming weeks.
Inside Russia’s ‘fourth wave’: Record deaths, deep frustration and plenty of blame
Central to officials’ efforts is an all-out push to boost vaccination rates.
Between 20 and 25 percent of the population has been fully vaccinated, and the shots are free and easily available. Officials report that well over 90 percent of those hospitalized with covid-19 are unvaccinated.
A protester at an anti-vaccine rally in Kyiv on Nov. 3, 2021, holds a placard with a reference to the false theory that the novel coronavirus was spread by 5G — or fifth-generation — digital technology. (Valentyn Ogirenko/Reuters)
One reason Ukraine’s vaccination rates are so low: widespread anti-vaccine narratives and disinformation campaigns, many of which officials claim are being pushed from inside Russia.
Russian authorities deny that they are fomenting instability in Ukraine. But Ukrainian officials insist that this is part of multipart campaign by Moscow to undermine Ukrainian sovereignty. Kyiv calls it a “hybrid war” that has included Russia’s internationally unrecognized annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula in 2014 and support for an armed, pro-Russian separatist effort in eastern Ukraine.
Recent messages that Ukrainian officials suspect have Russian links include conspiracy theories that the novel coronavirus is spread via 5G digital technology or by the billionaire Bill Gates, that the vaccines will cause genetic mutations or that Ukraine’s response is proof that it is a failed state.
In March, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, in response to U.S. allegations that Moscow was spreading pandemic-related disinformation worldwide, said the claims were “absurd” and “have no basis in fact.”
“Russia has never participated and does not intend to participate in such campaigns against other vaccines,” he said. (Russia developed its own vaccines, led by Sputnik V.)
Caught between politics and the pandemic, some countries ban rivals’ vaccines
Ukraine’s information campaigns in the spring and summer focused largely on spreading the word that coronavirus vaccines — which reached Ukraine relatively late — were available, and where and how they could be obtained.


Svitlana Kisilova, the head of Ukraine’s Covid-19 Vaccination Communication Center, said she and her team recognized that they were not connecting with certain audiences. They began to shift their messaging in September.
People rally against a vaccine mandate for some state employees and pandemic-related restrictions in Kyiv on Nov. 3, 2021. The placard reads: “Vaccination kills.” (Valentyn Ogirenko/Reuters)
“The anti-vaccine messages are more emotional and very blunt,” said Kisilova, whose group helps coordinate the government’s public outreach.
“We looked at our research and understood that what we were doing wasn’t working for certain audiences,” she added. “We’ve stopped being nice.”
Ukrainians’ resistance to vaccines has a long history. Many view any official directive with suspicion, after decades of governmental corruption and mismanagement. There also is a movement against more established vaccines, such as those for measles and polio, that predates the pandemic.
On Wednesday, health officials told the BBC Ukrainian service that five pediatric cases of polio had been diagnosed in southwestern Ukraine.
At the same time, however, the anti-vaccine narratives were taking root. Opinion polls over the summer showed a sharp drop in the number of people saying they were ready to receive vaccine shots, from more than 70 percent to fewer than 50 percent.
“The reasons [for the drop] were many — lack of trust, fear of after effects,” said Andrii Sukharyna, a political analyst at Ilko Kucheriv Democratic Initiatives Foundation in Kyiv, which conducted the second poll.
“But there were also more hidden reasons, and these to a great extent were connected to Russian propaganda.”
Isabelle Khurshudyan in Moscow contributed to this report.
How to navigate coronavirus restrictions across Europe
Am I eligible for a booster shot?
In Russia, experts challenge official pandemic figures. They refused to be silenced.




https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/coronavirus-ukraine-vaccine-russia/2021/11/05/f63e23f6-3ca4-11ec-bd6f-da376f47304e_story.html


#110
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 11.11.2021
Заглавие: Eastern Europe, facing coronavirus pandemic surge, also battles vaccine hesitancy


By Bryan Pietsch
November 11, 2021|Updated November 11, 2021 at 2:32 p.m. EST
Europe was one of the first regions in the world to deploy coronavirus vaccines, yet parts of the continent are seeing a resurgence in cases, with some countries experiencing their highest infection levels of the pandemic.
In the Czech Republic, new daily cases are up 33 percent over the past week, while recorded infections have jumped by 52 percent in Croatia and 49 percent in Austria, according to a Washington Post tracker.
On Thursday, Germany’s weekly case rate soared to a record 249 new infections per 100,000 people, according to the country’s infectious-disease agency, eclipsing last winter’s high of about 197.
The difference now is that safe and effective vaccines have been available for months. But as winter approaches in Central Europe and Eastern Europe, vaccination rates in many countries are lagging behind.
 “The pandemic is anything but over,” German Health Minister Jens Spahn said at a recent news conference. “We are currently experiencing a pandemic mainly among the unvaccinated,” he said. “And it is massive.”
About 66 percent of Germans are fully vaccinated, according to Our World in Data, which tracks publicly available figures, putting Germany slightly behind Britain and France. The European Union’s overall vaccination rate hovers at about 65 percent, buoyed in part by sky-high vaccine uptake in countries like Portugal, but bogged down by lagging efforts in Central Europe and Eastern Europe.
In the Czech Republic, about 57 percent of people are fully vaccinated, a rate nearly identical to that of the United States, where officials have for months blamed the untamed spread of the virus on the unvaccinated. Only a third of the populations in Russia and Romania are fully vaccinated. In Russia, recorded infections are at their highest levels yet, with about 40,000 new cases reported each day.
More than a thousand coronavirus-related deaths are being recorded in Russia each day — a “startling” number, said Elizabeth King, a professor at the University of Michigan’s School of Public Health whose research focuses on Russia and Eastern Europe.
Vaccine hesitancy in the region can be attributed to distrust in the government and in the vaccines themselves, King said. “Misinformation is spreading as fast as the virus,” she said.
Conspiracy theories about the coronavirus and vaccines have spread in Bulgaria, fueling resistance to shots there. “The people in my community don’t want to get vaccinated,” Kapka Georgieva, a Bulgarian woman who received the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, told Post reporters in September. “They are afraid and hearing on television and other sources that they might die. There is panic. I can’t convince anyone to get the vaccine.”
In Russia, the Sputnik V vaccine has been widely available since the spring but has been met with a mix of ambivalence and mistrust. A doctor in St. Petersburg, Lev Averbakh, recently told The Washington Post that he was “so sick and tired of explaining to people what this virus is about and why they need to be vaccinated.” He said, “This resistance from the population is huge.”
King said that “the spread of misinformation around vaccines was a concern” in Central Europe and Eastern Europe “even prior to the covid-19 pandemic.” She pointed to measles outbreaks in recent years “due to lapses in vaccination” in countries like Ukraine, where less than 1 in 5 people are fully vaccinated against the coronavirus. The surge there is particularly worrisome, she said, because the health-care system is “not adequately prepared” to deal with the deluge of cases.
The low vaccination rate in Ukraine comes despite a wide array of vaccines available, including shots by AstraZeneca, Moderna, Pfizer-BioNTech and Sinovac. Officials there have made a push in recent weeks urging people to get vaccinated.
As pandemic pounds Ukraine, desperate officials try to scare people into getting the jab
“I ask everyone to switch off your social networks and turn on your brains,” Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said recently in comments to reporters. “We must get vaccinated. It’s the only solution.”
The increase in cases across the continent come as the United States this week lifted restrictions on incoming travel from 33 countries, including many in Europe. Entry for foreigners is contingent upon proof of vaccination and a negative coronavirus test.
Sputnik V, however, was excluded from the U.S. list of accepted vaccines because it has not yet been approved by the World Health Organization. King said that authorization from the WHO or E.U. could make international travel an incentive for Russians to get vaccinated and also “eventually help change attitudes towards the vaccine within the country.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/11/11/europe-coronavirus-rise-vaccines/


#111
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 15.11.2021
Заглавие: Specter of new restrictions rises in Europe with coronavirus cases spiking once again


By Miriam Berger
November 15, 2021 at 5:00 p.m. EST
Nearly two years into the coronavirus era, much of Europe is once again facing a surge in cases and, in some countries, a return to lockdowns and restrictions that felt like a distant part of the pandemic.
This time around, unvaccinated residents are frequently the target of new measures. Overall, about 76 percent of adults in the European Union and 65 percent of the total population have been fully vaccinated, according to the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control.
In Austria, as of midnight Monday, about 2 million unvaccinated people will be subject to a lockdown lasting 10 days as cases rise.
In Germany, rattled by record-breaking levels of confirmed infections, the government has shied away from population-wide vaccine mandates, but officials have introduced mounting restrictions on those who haven’t had the jab. As of Monday in Berlin, only those residents who are vaccinated or who are recovered can eat out in restaurants or visit bars.
In the Netherlands, a three-week partial lockdown is underway, with restaurants and shops ordered to close early in an effort to get ahead of a spike in cases which could raise pressure on hospitals.
In Italy, a relatively early adopter of vaccine mandates after a devastating period, infection rates are among the lowest in Europe.
European countries consider lockdowns while coronavirus cases surge
In Britain, which has continued to resist reimposing restrictions despite high case counts, Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned Monday that “storm clouds” were gathering over parts of the continent.
“We don’t yet know the extent to which this new wave will wash up on our shores but history shows we cannot afford to be complacent,” Johnson said. He urged those eligible in the United Kingdom to get booster shots and for those still waiting for initial doses to come forward.
Last week, Europe reported close to 2 million coronavirus cases, the “most in a single week in that region since the pandemic started,” World Health Organization Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said.
“Some European countries are now reintroducing restrictions to curb transmission and take the pressure off their health systems,” he said. “No country should be in this position almost two years in the pandemic.”
Fueled by vaccine hesitancy, slowing vaccination rates and the rollback of infection-control measures such as face mask mandates and travel bans, Europe is in many ways a test case for what life with both the virus and vaccines could come to look like after the pandemic itself is over.
Though vaccines against the coronavirus still remain limited for much of the world’s population, Europe was among the earliest regions to roll out immunization programs. In the year since, more contagious variants have fueled additional outbreaks as the virus has continued to spread among the unvaccinated and in breakthrough infections of the vaccinated.
No coronavirus vaccine can guarantee complete protection, but the shots significantly lessen the risk of catching the virus and of developing a severe case if a person does come down with a breakthrough infection.
Eastern Europe battles vaccine hesitancy along with coronavirus surge
Vaccination rates in Eastern Europe have remained lower overall than those in Western Europe. The recent surge in coronavirus cases began in the latter and is now hitting the former. Countries with vaccination rates in the upper 70 percent range have in turn fared better than their neighbors with vaccination rates hovering around 60 percent or below.
In Romania, where just 40 percent of the population is fully vaccinated, hospital wards have been stretched thin as hundreds of people have died a day from the virus in the last two months. The country reached a peak with over 590 confirmed dead on Nov. 2, with more than 90 percent of fatalities among the unvaccinated, according to the Associated Press.
Earlier this month, Latvia tightened its entry rules for almost all European countries. Latvia is facing one of the worst outbreaks in Europe along with having among the lowest vaccination rates.
The country’s new public health measures have targeted the unvaccinated. The Latvian parliament passed legislation which allows businesses to fire workers who refuse the shot or transfer to remote work. Lawmakers are not exempted as members of parliament who refuse to be vaccinated will lose pay and their right to vote on legislation.
European Commission spokesman Stefan De Keersmaecker said Monday that lockdowns in the 27-member bloc are a country-by-country decision. The European Center for Disease Prevention and Control concluded in a September study that countries with less than 55 percent to 65 percent of their total population vaccinated risk a significant case surge if they ease down pandemic restrictions right now.
“With case increases in almost all member states, the situation remains fragile and the vaccination coverage must continue,” he said.
Russia’s vaccination campaign has also lagged, a year into the availability of the country’s Sputnik V vaccine. A fourth wave has set records in daily cases and deaths, although the government proceeded with a scheduled rollback of a partial lockdown this week. But authorities have signaled that strict public mandates for the unvaccinated are on the horizon.
Only 40 percent of Russia’s population is fully vaccinated. One draft law would require people to have a QR code confirming vaccination, a medical certificate proving a previous infection or a medical exemption from the vaccine for anyone seeking to travel on intercity or international rail and air services. The code also would be needed to purchase tickets.
If the proposed legislation passes, it would come into force in February. QR codes might also be required for public places and restaurants, but those measures would depend on the region rather than nationwide.
William Booth in London, Isabelle Khurshudyan in Moscow, Loveday Morris in Berlin and Perry Stein in Brussels contributed to this report.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/11/15/europe-coronavirus-restrictions/


#112
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 23.11.2021
Заглавие: Your questions about covid, answered: Is there reliable data about Russian vaccines?


By Derek Hawkins
November 23, 2021 at 12:02 a.m. EST
 “Is there reliable data on effectiveness for the Russian vaccines?”
— Christopher in California
FAQ: What to know about the omicron variant of the coronavirus
Russia surprised the world in August 2020 when it became the first country to register a coronavirus vaccine. Peer-reviewed data indicates the shots, which are used in several dozen countries, work well in preventing severe illness. But questions linger about the quality of the research, and the vaccine has yet to receive authorization from the World Health Organization.
Known as Sputnik V, Russia’s vaccine initially alarmed the international community because Russian officials authorized it before the results of Phase I and II clinical trials were published. Phase III trials, the gold standard for drug testing, hadn’t even begun when the shots started going into arms. Officials also used the Sputnik V Twitter account to cast doubt on Western vaccines. This didn’t inspire much confidence from scientists and health leaders. Many Russians were skeptical, too.
A turning point came in February, when the results of a large clinical trial were published in the Lancet, a well-respected medical journal. The study, which involved nearly 20,000 participants, showed that Sputnik V was about 91.6 percent effective at preventing symptomatic illness. That appeared to put in on par with the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines.
“The development of the Sputnik V vaccine has been criticized for unseemly haste, corner cutting, and an absence of transparency,” two independent scientists from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine wrote in a commentary in the Lancet. “But the outcome reported here is clear and the scientific principle of vaccination is demonstrated, which means another vaccine can now join the fight to reduce the incidence of COVID-19.”
Encouraging findings, to be sure. But researchers have since voiced hesitations about the study design, and Sputnik V’s developers have faced criticism for not sharing the underlying data from the clinical trials. In September, a group of scientists flagged what it said were “questionable” and potentially duplicative values in the trial data, and called on the study authors to provide a more detailed breakdown.
The WHO and European regulators say they, too, haven’t gotten all the data they’ve requested on Sputnik V. Reuters reported last month that the European Medicines Agency probably wouldn’t decide on whether to authorize the vaccine until at least the first quarter of 2022. Authorization from the WHO could also take months or even longer. A green light from the WHO is particularly important — without it, many Russians and others around the world who got Sputnik V won’t be able to travel to the United States, and the vaccine won’t qualify for the WHO’s Covax initiative to send doses to lower-income countries.
“Unfortunately, Sputnik V’s defenders have yet to acknowledge that there might be any actual safety or efficacy issues with the drug, let alone provide data to satisfy the regulators that have flagged concerns. This stance undermines public faith in the vaccine at home and abroad,” Paul Stronski, a Russia expert at the nonpartisan Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, wrote last week.
“Sputnik V clearly provides some protection against severe disease,” Stronski wrote, “but independently verified data remain hard to come by.”
— Derek Hawkins


https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/your-questions-about-covid-answered-is-there-reliable-data-about-russian-vaccines/2021/11/19/233a50fe-47f5-11ec-95dc-5f2a96e00fa3_story.html


#113
Источник: Washington Post
Дата: 23.12.2021
Заглавие: Omicron could derail efforts to reverse vaccine inequality and end the pandemic, experts warn


By Miriam Berger
December 23, 2021 at 6:00 a.m. EST
The rapid spread of the omicron variant could be a major setback for efforts to reverse sharp inequality in the accessibility of effective coronavirus vaccines around the world, public health experts warn.
That could mean longer delays for vaccination programs in poor countries, leaving large populations unprotected and prolonging the circumstances under which experts say dangerous variants are most likely to emerge.
A subsequent increase in demand for mRNA vaccines and booster doses, which appear to offer the best protection against omicron, would drive a widening of the divide, as rich countries accrue more doses and poor ones continue to go without or face long delays and uncertainty.
Wealthy nations rush boosters to counter omicron as poorer nations await first doses
After a global run on doses, logistics have supplanted availability as the chief obstacle to vaccinating the world’s neediest, World Health Organization vaccine director Kate O’Brien told The Washington Post earlier this month. But omicron could bring availability problems soaring back, experts fear.
“The inequalities are worsening,” said Tsion Firew, an assistant professor at the Columbia University Medical Center and adviser to Ethiopia’s Ministry of Health. “Especially as the omicron variant is widely spreading in places like the United States,” which continues to record a rate of per capita deaths among the highest in the world, “we are going to see more vaccine hoarding and we are going to see it become more difficult for low-income countries to access” doses, she said.
In a news conference on Wednesday, the WHO once again urged countries to wait on administering widespread boosters, and to instead focus on ensuring first and second doses globally.
There’s still much to learn about omicron. But initial studies show that the highly contagious variant more easily evades vaccines, though vaccinated people remain at a far lower risk of developing severe disease.
Coronavirus vaccines also do not appear to protect against omicron equally: Newer mRNA vaccines produced by Pfizer and Moderna seem to be more effective, according to the first round of research, than technologies used by Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, Russia’s Sputnik, and China’s Sinopharm and Sinovac — which produces the world’s most widely used vaccine.
Booster doses of mRNA vaccines further increase the likelihood of preventing infection, according to initial laboratory trials. But a Sinopharm booster showed a “significantly lower” chance of neutralizing omicron, according to a recent study by researchers in Shanghai, Reuters reported.
About 30 percent of the fully vaccinated in the U.S. have gotten boosted. Omicron could speed things up.
“What that says is that most of the world is vulnerable to infection at a mass scale,” said J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Global Health Policy Center at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington-based think tank. “The geopolitics around vaccines are going to get much, much worse,” he added.
In poor countries, where vaccination rates remain low and AstraZeneca and Sinovac account for many of the doses distributed, any setback is especially costly. In contrast, in Europe and North America, and countries including Israel and the United Arab Emirates, vaccination rates are high and Pfizer or Moderna booster shots predominate.
Global vaccine inequality runs deep. Some countries say intellectual property rights are part of the problem.
Initial laboratory studies tell only part of the story, said Krishna Udayakumar, founding director of the Duke Global Health Innovation Center. More time-consuming clinical trials will offer a fuller picture of the performance of vaccines in the face of the omicron variant.
But it is already apparent, Udayakumar said, that for best protection, “everyone will need a third dose of a vaccine for higher protection given the emergence and pending dominance of omicron.”
That will be an uphill battle in much of the world. Just 8.6 percent of the 1.3 billion people across Africa, for instance, are fully vaccinated, a status that does not include boosters. By comparison, nearly 62 percent of the United States’ population of 330 million is fully immunized — and more than 60 million booster shots have been given out.
“Omicron is a prime example of why we need to ramp up global vaccination efforts — not just providing vaccines, but also ensuring barriers to distribution and getting shots in arms are addressed and overcome,” Saskia Popescu, an infectious-disease epidemiologist at the University of Arizona and George Mason University, said in an email. “It’s not enough just to send several million [doses to lower-income countries], but also provide resources (people, storage, vehicles, educational resources, etc.) to ensure they are meeting the end target — equitable vaccine distribution globally,” she continued.
South Africa’s huge omicron wave appears to be subsiding just as quickly as it grew
Covax, the United Nations-led effort to get vaccines to lower- and middle-income countries, is racing to deliver 800 million doses by the year’s end — far off from its pledge of 2.3 billion.
Adding to the imbalance is the question of emerging disparities between vaccines.
Vaccine manufacturer Moderna, citing preliminary data, said Monday its booster raised antibody levels against the omicron variant by 37 percent and that a dose double that of a standard booster increased levels by 83 percent. While a study by Discovery Health, South Africa’s largest health insurer, reported that two doses of Pfizer provided just 33 percent protection against omicron infection, a laboratory study by the company said its booster shot saw a 25-fold increase in the level of neutralizing antibodies.
A more dire scenario is emerging in preliminary studies on non-mRNA vaccines, such as AstraZeneca, which 99 percent of vaccinated people in India have received, and Sinopharm and Sinovac, which China has distributed domestically and globally.
Covax promised 2 billion vaccine doses to help the world’s neediest in 2021. It won’t even deliver even half that.
A study by the U.K. Health Security Agency found that two doses of either the AstraZeneca or Pfizer vaccine did not provide adequate protection against an omicron infection: Though the data pool was small, AstraZeneca offered the least of the two. The Pfizer booster, the study found, would likely increase the chance of neutralizing the virus by 70 to 75 percent.
A study in Hong Kong testing the blood samples of 25 people vaccinated with Sinovac found nearly no antibody protection from omicron. A Sinopharm booster also failed to spur significant neutralization of omicron in a Shanghai laboratory study.
Given this preliminary data, said Morrison of the Global Health Policy Center, China “is not going to be able to suppress and contain” omicron.
A clearer picture of the variant’s impact will emerge in the coming weeks — though scientists fear that, even if it proves milder than previous variants, already strained health systems could still be overwhelmed by an influx of patients coupled with reduced staff due to widespread exposures.
Highly vaccinated countries thought they were over the worst. Denmark says the pandemic’s toughest month is just beginning.
In the meantime, the Columbia University Medical Center’s Firew said face masks and coronavirus vaccines of every kind, along with tests, remain a critical first defense.
“What vaccines are doing is preventing death and severe illness,” she said. “Some have a higher protection than the other ones. But any vaccine is better than no vaccine.”
Firew said omicron could offer a moment of global reckoning and reorienting of priorities, such as sharing mRNA technologies, to increase vaccine production and access “for all vulnerable populations around the world.”
“Really grotesque inequities exist, which have made it possible for these dangerous variants to evolve,” Morrison said. “The huge mistake we made in the past year is that such large segments of the world have uncontrolled” transmission.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021/12/23/omicron-coronavirus-vaccine-inequality/